<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jacob called unto his sons, and said: gather yourselves together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the latter days. <a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Assemble yourselves, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; And hearken unto Israel your father. <a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Reuben, thou art my first-born, my might, and the beginning of my strength; The pre-eminence of dignity, and the pre-eminence of power. <a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Boiling over as water, thou shalt not have the pre-eminence; Because thou wentest up to thy father’s bed; Then defiledst thou it: he went up to my couch. <a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Simeon and Levi are brethren; Weapons of violence are their swords. <a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O my soul, come not thou into their council; Unto their assembly, my glory, be not thou united; For in their anger they slew a man, And in their self-will they hocked an ox. <a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; And their wrath, for it was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, And scatter them in Israel. <a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Judah, thee shall thy brethren praise: Thy hand shall be on the neck of thine enemies; Thy father’s sons shall bow down before thee. <a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Judah is a lion’s whelp; From the prey, my son, thou art gone up: He stooped down, he couched as a lion, And as a lioness; who shall rouse him up? <a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, Nor the ruler’s staff from between his feet, Until Shiloh come: And unto him shall the obedience of the peoples be. <a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Binding his foal unto the vine, And his ass’s colt unto the choice vine; He hath washed his garments in wine, And his vesture in the blood of grapes: <a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His eyes shall be red with wine, And his teeth white with milk. <a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; And he shall be for a haven of ships; And his border shall be upon Sidon. <a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Issachar is a strong ass, Couching down between the sheepfolds: <a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he saw a resting-place that it was good, And the land that it was pleasant; And he bowed his shoulder to bear, And became a servant under taskwork. <a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Dan shall judge his people, As one of the tribes of Israel. <a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Dan shall be a serpent in the way, An adder in the path, That biteth the horse’s heels, So that his rider falleth backward. <a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I have waited for thy salvation, O Jehovah. <a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Gad, a troop shall press upon him; But he shall press upon their heel. <a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Out of the Asher his bread shall be fat, And he shall yield royal dainties. <a id="c49_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Naphtali is a hind let loose: He giveth goodly words. <a id="c49_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Joseph is a fruitful bough, A fruitful bough by a fountain; His branches run over the wall. <a id="c49_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The archers have sorely grieved him, And shot at him, and persecute him: <a id="c49_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But his bow abode in strength, And the arms of his hands were made strong, By the hands of the Mighty One of Jacob, (From thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel), <a id="c49_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee, And by the Almighty, who shall bless thee, With blessings of heaven above, Blessings of the deep that coucheth beneath, Blessings of the breasts, and of the womb. <a id="c49_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The blessings of thy father Have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors Unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills: They shall be on the head of Joseph, And on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren. <a id="c49_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Benjamin is a wolf that raveneth: In the morning she shall devour the prey, And at even he shall divide the spoil.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it that their father spake unto them and blessed them; every one according to his blessing he blessed them. <a id="c49_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite, <a id="c49_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> in the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a burying-place. <a id="c49_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> there they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah: <a id="c49_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> the field and the cave that is therein, which was purchased from the children of Heth. <a id="c49_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when Jacob made an end of charging his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.</p>

</body>
</html>