<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens; with all wherewith the ground teemeth, and all the fishes of the sea, into your hand are they delivered. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Every moving thing that liveth shall be food for you; as the green herb have I given you all. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And surely your blood, the blood of your lives, will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it. And at the hand of man, even at the hand of every man’s brother, will I require the life of man. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you; <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you. Of all that go out of the ark, even every beast of the earth. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will establish my covenant with you; neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of the flood; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations: <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud, <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the sons of Noah, that went forth from the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These three were the sons of Noah: and of these was the whole earth overspread.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Noah began to be a husbandman, and planted a vineyard: <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and he drank of the wine, and was drunken. And he was uncovered within his tent. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father. And their faces were backward, and they saw not their father’s nakedness. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his youngest son had done unto him. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said, Cursed be Canaan; A servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Shem; And let Canaan be his servant. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> God enlarge Japheth, And let him dwell in the tents of Shem; And let Canaan be his servant.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.</p>

</body>
</html>