<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Abraham took another wife, and her name was Keturah. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But unto the sons of the concubines, that Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts. And he sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And these are the days of the years of Abraham’s life which he lived, a hundred threescore and fifteen years. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years, and was gathered to his people. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The field which Abraham purchased of the children of Heth. There was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed Isaac his son. And Isaac dwelt by Beer-lahai-roi.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s handmaid, bare unto Abraham. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the first-born of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hadad, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their villages, and by their encampments. Twelve princes according to their nations. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, a hundred and thirty and seven years. And he gave up the ghost and died, and was gathered unto his people. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria. He abode over against all his brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham’s son. Abraham begat Isaac. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Paddan-aram, the sister of Laban the Syrian, to be his wife. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Isaac entreated Jehovah for his wife, because she was barren. And Jehovah was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the children struggled together within her. And she said, If it be so, wherefore do I live? And she went to inquire of Jehovah. <a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jehovah said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, And two peoples shall be separated from thy bowels. And the one people shall be stronger than the other people. And the elder shall serve the younger.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the first came forth red, all over like a hairy garment. And they called his name Esau. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And after that came forth his brother, and his hand had hold on Esau’s heel. And his name was called Jacob. And Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the boys grew. And Esau was a skilful hunter, a man of the field. And Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison. And Rebekah loved Jacob. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jacob boiled pottage. And Esau came in from the field, and he was faint. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage. For I am faint. Therefore was his name called Edom. <a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Jacob said, Sell me first thy birthright. <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Esau said, Behold, I am about to die. And what profit shall the birthright do to me? <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Jacob said, Swear to me first. And he sware unto him. And he sold his birthright unto Jacob. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils. And he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way. So Esau despised his birthright.</p>

</body>
</html>