<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the man knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man with the help of Jehovah. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And again she bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto Jehovah. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And Jehovah had respect unto Abel and to his offering: <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen? <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If thou doest well, shall it not be lifted up? and if thou doest not well, sin coucheth at the door: and unto thee shall be its desire, but do thou rule over it. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Cain told Abel his brother. And it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not: am I my brother’s keeper? <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother’s blood crieth unto me from the ground. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now cursed art thou from the ground, which hath opened its mouth to receive thy brother’s blood from thy hand; <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> when thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee its strength; a fugitive and a wanderer shalt thou be in the earth. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Cain said unto Jehovah, My punishment is greater than I can bear. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the ground; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth; and it will come to pass, that whosoever findeth me will slay me. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jehovah said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And Jehovah appointed a sign for Cain, lest any finding him should smite him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Cain went out from the presence of Jehovah, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methushael; and Methushael begat Lamech. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents and have cattle. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And his brother’s name was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and pipe. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Zillah, she also bare Tubal-cain, the forger of every cutting instrument of brass and iron: and the sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Lamech said unto his wives: Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; Ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: For I have slain a man for wounding me, And a young man for bruising me: <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, Truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth. For, said she, God hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel; for Cain slew him. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enosh. Then began men to call upon the name of Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>