<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And on the seventh day God finished his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And God blessed the seventh day, and hallowed it; because that in it he rested from all his work which God had created and made.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that Jehovah God made earth and heaven. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And no plant of the field was yet in the earth, and no herb of the field had yet sprung up; for Jehovah God had not caused it to rain upon the earth: and there was not a man to till the ground; <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jehovah God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah God planted a garden eastward, in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And out of the ground made Jehovah God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became four heads. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The name of the first is Pishon: that is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold; <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and the gold of that land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that compasseth the whole land of Cush. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which goeth in front of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jehovah God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jehovah God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat: <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jehovah God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him a help meet for him. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And out of the ground Jehovah God formed every beast of the field, and every bird of the heavens; and brought them unto the man to see what he would call them: and whatsoever the man called every living creature, that was the name thereof. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the man gave names to all cattle, and to the birds of the heavens, and to every beast of the field; but for man there was not found a help meet for him. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Jehovah God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and he slept; and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof: <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and the rib, which Jehovah God had taken from the man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the man said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.</p>

</body>
</html>