<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, that they take for me an offering: of every man whose heart maketh him willing ye shall take my offering. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this is the offering which ye shall take of them: gold, and silver, and brass, <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats’ hair, <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and rams’ skins dyed red, and sealskins, and acacia wood, <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense, <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> According to all that I show thee, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the furniture thereof, even so shall ye make it.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they shall make an ark of acacia wood: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four feet thereof; and two rings shall be on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou shalt make staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And thou shalt put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, wherewith to bear the ark. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And thou shalt make a mercy-seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And thou shalt make two cherubim of gold; of beaten work shalt thou make them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat. <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And make one cherub at the one end, and one cherub at the other end: of one piece with the mercy-seat shall ye make the cherubim on the two ends thereof. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the cherubim shall spread out their wings on high, covering the mercy-seat with their wings, with their faces one to another; toward the mercy-seat shall the faces of the cherubim be. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And thou shalt put the mercy-seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And thou shalt make a table of acacia wood: two cubits shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. <a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about. <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And thou shalt make unto it a border of a handbreadth round about; and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round about. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof. <a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Close by the border shall the rings be, for places for the staves to bear the table. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And thou shalt make the staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and the spoons thereof, and the flagons thereof, and the bowls thereof, wherewith to pour out: of pure gold shalt thou make them. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And thou shalt set upon the table showbread before me alway.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made, even its base, and its shaft; its cups, its knops, and its flowers, shall be of one piece with it. <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And there shall be six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof: <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> three cups made like almond-blossoms in one branch, a knop and a flower; and three cups made like almond-blossoms in the other branch, a knop and a flower: so for the six branches going out of the candlestick: <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and in the candlestick four cups made like almond-blossoms, the knops thereof, and the flowers thereof; <a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, and a knop under two branches of one piece with it, for the six branches going out of the candlestick. <a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Their knops and their branches shall be of one piece with it; the whole of it one beaten work of pure gold. <a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And thou shalt make the lamps thereof, seven: and they shall light the lamps thereof, to give light over against it. <a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the snuffers thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of pure gold. <a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Of a talent of pure gold shall it be made, with all these vessels. <a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And see that thou make them after their pattern, which hath been showed thee in the mount.</p>

</body>
</html>