<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If a man shall steal an ox, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it; he shall pay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If the thief be found breaking in, and be smitten so that he dieth, there shall be no bloodguiltiness for him. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If the sun be risen upon him, there shall be bloodguiltiness for him; he shall make restitution: if he have nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If the theft be found in his hand alive, whether it be ox, or ass, or sheep, he shall pay double.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall let his beast loose, and it feed in another man’s field; of the best of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make restitution.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the shocks of grain, or the standing grain, or the field are consumed; he that kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If a man shall deliver unto his neighbor money or stuff to keep, and it be stolen out of the man’s house; if the thief be found, he shall pay double. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall come near unto God, to see whether he have not put his hand unto his neighbor’s goods. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For every matter of trespass, whether it be for ox, for ass, for sheep, for raiment, or for any manner of lost thing, whereof one saith, This is it, the cause of both parties shall come before God; he whom God shall condemn shall pay double unto his neighbor.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If a man deliver unto his neighbor an ass, or an ox, or a sheep, or any beast, to keep; and it die, or be hurt, or driven away, no man seeing it: <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the oath of Jehovah shall be between them both, whether he hath not put his hand unto his neighbor’s goods; and the owner thereof shall accept it, and he shall not make restitution. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution unto the owner thereof. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If it be torn in pieces, let him bring it for witness: he shall not make good that which was torn.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if a man borrow aught of his neighbor, and it be hurt, or die, the owner thereof not being with it, he shall surely make restitution. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If the owner thereof be with it, he shall not make it good: if it be a hired thing, it came for its hire.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if a man entice a virgin that is not betrothed, and lie with her, he shall surely pay a dowry for her to be his wife. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If her father utterly refuse to give her unto him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou shalt not suffer a sorceress to live.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He that sacrificeth unto any god, save unto Jehovah only, shall be utterly destroyed. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And a sojourner shalt thou not wrong, neither shalt thou oppress him: for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If thou afflict them at all, and they cry at all unto me, I will surely hear their cry; <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and my wrath shall wax hot, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If thou lend money to any of my people with thee that is poor, thou shalt not be to him as a creditor; neither shall ye lay upon him interest. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If thou at all take thy neighbor’s garment to pledge, thou shalt restore it unto him before the sun goeth down: <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> for that is his only covering, it is his garment for his skin: wherein shall he sleep? And it shall come to pass, when he crieth unto me, that I will hear; for I am gracious.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou shalt not revile God, nor curse a ruler of thy people. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Thou shalt not delay to offer of thy harvest, and of the outflow of thy presses. The first-born of thy sons shalt thou give unto me. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen, and with thy sheep: seven days it shall be with its dam; on the eighth day thou shalt give it me. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And ye shall be holy men unto me: therefore ye shall not eat any flesh that is torn of beasts in the field; ye shall cast it to the dogs.</p>

</body>
</html>