<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Moses assembled all the congregation of the children of Israel, and said unto them, These are the words which Jehovah hath commanded, that ye should do them. <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Six days shall work be done; but on the seventh day there shall be to you a holy day, a sabbath of solemn rest to Jehovah: whosoever doeth any work therein shall be put to death. <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the sabbath day.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which Jehovah commanded, saying, <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Take ye from among you an offering unto Jehovah; whosoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, Jehovah’s offering: gold, and silver, and brass, <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats’ hair, <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and rams’ skins dyed red, and sealskins, and acacia wood, <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and oil for the light, and spices for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense, <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And let every wise-hearted man among you come, and make all that Jehovah hath commanded: <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the tabernacle, its tent, and its covering, its clasps, and its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets; <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> the ark, and the staves thereof, the mercy-seat, and the veil of the screen; <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> the table, and its staves, and all its vessels, and the showbread; <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> the candlestick also for the light, and its vessels, and its lamps, and the oil for the light; <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and the altar of incense, and its staves, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the screen for the door, at the door of the tabernacle; <a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> the altar of burnt-offering, with its grating of brass, it staves, and all its vessels, the laver and its base; <a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the hangings of the court, the pillars thereof, and their sockets, and the screen for the gate of the court; <a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> the pins of the tabernacle, and the pins of the court, and their cords; <a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> the finely wrought garments, for ministering in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest’s office.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses. <a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and every one whom his spirit made willing, and brought Jehovah’s offering, for the work of the tent of meeting, and for all the service thereof, and for the holy garments. <a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing-hearted, and brought brooches, and ear-rings, and signet-rings, and armlets, all jewels of gold; even every man that offered an offering of gold unto Jehovah. <a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And every man, with whom was found blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats’ hair, and rams’ skins dyed red, and sealskins, brought them. <a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass brought Jehovah’s offering; and every man, with whom was found acacia wood for any work of the service, brought it. <a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And all the women that were wise-hearted did spin with their hands, and brought that which they had spun, the blue, and the purple, the scarlet, and the fine linen. <a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And all the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spun the goats’ hair. <a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the rulers brought the onyx stones, and the stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate; <a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and the spice, and the oil; for the light, and for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense. <a id="c35_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The children of Israel brought a freewill-offering unto Jehovah; every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all the work, which Jehovah had commanded to be made by Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, Jehovah hath called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. <a id="c35_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he hath filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship; <a id="c35_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and to devise skilful works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, <a id="c35_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all manner of skilful workmanship. <a id="c35_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, both he, and Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan. <a id="c35_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart, to work all manner of workmanship, of the engraver, and of the skilful workman, and of the embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of them that do any workmanship, and of those that devise skilful works.</p>

</body>
</html>