<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Ye shall make you no idols, neither shall ye rear you up a graven image, or a pillar, neither shall ye place any figured stone in your land, to bow down unto it: for I am Jehovah your God. <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If ye walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them; <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> then I will give your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the sowing time; and ye shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid: and I will cause evil beasts to cease out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand; and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will have respect unto you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and will establish my covenant with you. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And ye shall eat old store long kept, and ye shall bring forth the old because of the new. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will set my tabernacle among you: and my soul shall not abhor you. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will walk among you, and will be your God, and ye shall be my people. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I am Jehovah your God, who brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondmen; and I have broken the bars of your yoke, and made you go upright.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But if ye will not hearken unto me, and will not do all these commandments; <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and if ye shall reject my statutes, and if your soul abhor mine ordinances, so that ye will not do all my commandments, but break my covenant; <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I also will do this unto you: I will appoint terror over you, even consumption and fever, that shall consume the eyes, and make the soul to pine away; and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it. <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will set my face against you, and ye shall be smitten before your enemies: they that hate you shall rule over you; and ye shall flee when none pursueth you. <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And if ye will not yet for these things hearken unto me, then I will chastise you seven times more for your sins. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will break the pride of your power: and I will make your heaven as iron, and your earth as brass; <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and your strength shall be spent in vain; for your land shall not yield its increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And if ye walk contrary unto me, and will not hearken unto me, I will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to your sins. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I will send the beast of the field among you, which shall rob you of your children, and destroy your cattle, and make you few in number; and your ways shall become desolate. <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And if by these things ye will not be reformed unto me, but will walk contrary unto me; <a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> then will I also walk contrary unto you; and I will smite you, even I, seven times for your sins. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I will bring a sword upon you, that shall execute the vengeance of the covenant; and ye shall be gathered together within your cities: and I will send the pestilence among you; and ye shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy. <a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When I break your staff of bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver your bread again by weight: and ye shall eat, and not be satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And if ye will not for all this hearken unto me, but walk contrary unto me; <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> then I will walk contrary unto you in wrath; and I also will chastise you seven times for your sins. <a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye eat. <a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your sun-images, and cast your dead bodies upon the bodies of your idols; and my soul shall abhor you. <a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And I will make your cities a waste, and will bring your sanctuaries unto desolation, and I will not smell the savor of your sweet odors. <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And I will bring the land into desolation; and your enemies that dwell therein shall be astonished at it. <a id="c26_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And you will I scatter among the nations, and I will draw out the sword after you: and your land shall be a desolation, and your cities shall be a waste.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then shall the land enjoy its sabbaths, as long as it lieth desolate, and ye are in your enemies’ land; even then shall the land rest, and enjoy its sabbaths. <a id="c26_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> As long as it lieth desolate it shall have rest, even the rest which it had not in your sabbaths, when ye dwelt upon it. <a id="c26_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as for them that are left of you, I will send a faintness into their heart in the lands of their enemies: and the sound of a driven leaf shall chase them; and they shall flee, as one fleeth from the sword; and they shall fall when none pursueth. <a id="c26_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they shall stumble one upon another, as it were before the sword, when none pursueth: and ye shall have no power to stand before your enemies. <a id="c26_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And ye shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up. <a id="c26_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they that are left of you shall pine away in their iniquity in your enemies’ lands; and also in the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And they shall confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers, in their trespass which they trespassed against me, and also that, because they walked contrary unto me, <a id="c26_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> I also walked contrary unto them, and brought them into the land of their enemies: if then their uncircumcised heart be humbled, and they then accept of the punishment of their iniquity; <a id="c26_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> then will I remember my covenant with Jacob; and also my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham will I remember; and I will remember the land. <a id="c26_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> The land also shall be left by them, and shall enjoy its sabbaths, while it lieth desolate without them: and they shall accept of the punishment of their iniquity; because, even because they rejected mine ordinances, and their soul abhorred my statutes. <a id="c26_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not reject them, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them utterly, and to break my covenant with them; for I am Jehovah their God; <a id="c26_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> but I will for their sakes remember the covenant of their ancestors, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God: I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> These are the statutes and ordinances and laws, which Jehovah made between him and the children of Israel in mount Sinai by Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>