<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah said unto Moses, Speak unto the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say unto them, There shall none defile himself for the dead among his people; <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> except for his kin, that is near unto him, for his mother, and for his father, and for his son, and for his daughter, and for his brother, <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and for his sister a virgin, that is near unto him, that hath had no husband; for her may he defile himself. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall not defile himself, being a chief man among his people, to profane himself. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They shall not make baldness upon their head, neither shall they shave off the corner of their beard, nor make any cuttings in their flesh. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They shall be holy unto their God, and not profane the name of their God; for the offerings of Jehovah made by fire, the bread of their God, they do offer: therefore they shall be holy. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They shall not take a woman that is a harlot, or profane; neither shall they take a woman put away from her husband: for he is holy unto his God. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou shalt sanctify him therefore; for he offereth the bread of thy God: he shall be holy unto thee: for I Jehovah, who sanctify you, am holy. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the daughter of any priest, if she profane herself by playing the harlot, she profaneth her father: she shall be burnt with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he that is the high priest among his brethren, upon whose head the anointing oil is poured, and that is consecrated to put on the garments, shall not let the hair of his head go loose, nor rend his clothes; <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> neither shall he go in to any dead body, nor defile himself for his father, or for his mother; <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> neither shall he go out of the sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him: I am Jehovah. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he shall take a wife in her virginity. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A widow, or one divorced, or a profane woman, a harlot, these shall he not take: but a virgin of his own people shall he take to wife. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he shall not profane his seed among his people: for I am Jehovah who sanctifieth him.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Speak unto Aaron, saying, Whosoever he be of thy seed throughout their generations that hath a blemish, let him not approach to offer the bread of his God. <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For whatsoever man he be that hath a blemish, he shall not approach: a blind man, or a lame, or he that hath a flat nose, or anything superfluous, <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> or a man that is broken-footed, or broken-handed, <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> or crook-backed, or a dwarf, or that hath a blemish in his eye, or is scurvy, or scabbed, or hath his stones broken; <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> no man of the seed of Aaron the priest, that hath a blemish, shall come nigh to offer the offerings of Jehovah made by fire: he hath a blemish; he shall not come nigh to offer the bread of his God. <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He shall eat the bread of his God, both of the most holy, and of the holy: <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> only he shall not go in unto the veil, nor come nigh unto the altar, because he hath a blemish; that he profane not my sanctuaries: for I am Jehovah who sanctifieth them. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So Moses spake unto Aaron, and to his sons, and unto all the children of Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>