<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the people were as murmurers, speaking evil in the ears of Jehovah: and when Jehovah heard it, his anger was kindled; and the fire of Jehovah burnt among them, and devoured in the uttermost part of the camp. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the people cried unto Moses; and Moses prayed unto Jehovah, and the fire abated. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the name of that place was called Taberah, because the fire of Jehovah burnt among them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the mixed multitude that was among them lusted exceedingly: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat? <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt for nought; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic: <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but now our soul is dried away; there is nothing at all save this manna to look upon. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the manna was like coriander seed, and the appearance thereof as the appearance of bdellium. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in mortars, and boiled it in pots, and made cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell upon it. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, every man at the door of his tent: and the anger of Jehovah was kindled greatly; and Moses was displeased. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Moses said unto Jehovah, Wherefore hast thou dealt ill with thy servant? and wherefore have I not found favor in thy sight, that thou layest the burden of all this people upon me? <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Have I conceived all this people? have I brought them forth, that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing-father carrieth the sucking child, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers? <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favor in thy sight; and let me not see my wretchedness.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jehovah said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them unto the tent of meeting, that they may stand there with thee. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will come down and talk with thee there: and I will take of the Spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not thyself alone. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And say thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against to-morrow, and ye shall eat flesh; for ye have wept in the ears of Jehovah, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us in Egypt: therefore Jehovah will give you flesh, and ye shall eat. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days, <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> but a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome unto you; because that ye have rejected Jehovah who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt? <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Moses said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen; and thou hast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Shall flocks and herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them? <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jehovah said unto Moses, Is Jehovah’s hand waxed short? now shalt thou see whether my word shall come to pass unto thee or not.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Moses went out, and told the people the words of Jehovah: and he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the Tent. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Jehovah came down in the cloud, and spake unto him, and took of the Spirit that was upon him, and put it upon the seventy elders: and it came to pass, that, when the Spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, but they did so no more.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But there remained two men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the Spirit rested upon them; and they were of them that were written, but had not gone out unto the Tent; and they prophesied in the camp. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Joshua the son of Nun, the minister of Moses, one of his chosen men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Moses said unto him, Art thou jealous for my sake? would that all Jehovah’s people were prophets, that Jehovah would put his Spirit upon them! <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And there went forth a wind from Jehovah, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, about a day’s journey on this side, and a day’s journey on the other side, round about the camp, and about two cubits above the face of the earth. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the people rose up all that day, and all the night, and all the next day, and gathered the quails: he that gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp. <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> While the flesh was yet between their teeth, ere it was chewed, the anger of Jehovah was kindled against the people, and Jehovah smote the people with a very great plague. <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the name of that place was called Kibrothhattaavah, because there they buried the people that lusted. <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> From Kibrothhattaavah the people journeyed unto Hazeroth; and they abode at Hazeroth.</p>

</body>
</html>