<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Avenge the children of Israel of the Midianites: afterward shalt thou be gathered unto thy people. <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Moses spake unto the people, saying, Arm ye men from among you for the war, that they may go against Midian, to execute Jehovah’s vengeance on Midian. <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Of every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel, shall ye send to the war. <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So there were delivered, out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand of every tribe, twelve thousand armed for war. <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses sent them, a thousand of every tribe, to the war, them and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the vessels of the sanctuary and the trumpets for the alarm in his hand. <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they warred against Midian, as Jehovah commanded Moses; and they slew every male. <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they slew the kings of Midian with the rest of their slain: Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, the five kings of Midian: Balaam also the son of Beor they slew with the sword. <a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the children of Israel took captive the women of Midian and their little ones; and all their cattle, and all their flocks, and all their goods, they took for a prey. <a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And all their cities in the places wherein they dwelt, and all their encampments, they burnt with fire. <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they took all the spoil, and all the prey, both of man and of beast. <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, unto Moses, and unto Eleazar the priest, and unto the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the camp at the plains of Moab, which are by the Jordan at Jericho.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and all the princes of the congregation, went forth to meet them without the camp. <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Moses was wroth with the officers of the host, the captains of thousands and the captains of hundreds, who came from the service of the war. <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Moses said unto them, Have ye saved all the women alive? <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, these caused the children of Israel, through the counsel of Balaam, to commit trespass against Jehovah in the matter of Peor, and so the plague was among the congregation of Jehovah. <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman that hath known man by lying with him. <a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But all the women-children, that have not known man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves. <a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And encamp ye without the camp seven days: whosoever hath killed any person, and whosoever hath touched any slain, purify yourselves on the third day and on the seventh day, ye and your captives. <a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And as to every garment, and all that is made of skin, and all work of goats’ hair, and all things made of wood, ye shall purify yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Eleazar the priest said unto the men of war that went to the battle, This is the statute of the law which Jehovah hath commanded Moses: <a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> howbeit the gold, and the silver, the brass, the iron, the tin, and the lead, <a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> everything that may abide the fire, ye shall make to go through the fire, and it shall be clean; nevertheless it shall be purified with the water for impurity: and all that abideth not the fire ye shall make to go through the water. <a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And ye shall wash your clothes on the seventh day, and ye shall be clean; and afterward ye shall come into the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Take the sum of the prey that was taken, both of man and of beast, thou, and Eleazar the priest, and the heads of the fathers’ <a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and divide the prey into two parts: between the men skilled in war, that went out to battle, and all the congregation. <a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And levy a tribute unto Jehovah of the men of war that went out to battle: one soul of five hundred, both of the persons, and of the oxen, and of the asses, and of the flocks: <a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> take it of their half, and give it unto Eleazar the priest, for Jehovah’s heave-offering. <a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And of the children of Israel’s half, thou shalt take one drawn out of every fifty, of the persons, of the oxen, of the asses, and of the flocks, even of all the cattle, and give them unto the Levites, that keep the charge of the tabernacle of Jehovah. <a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as Jehovah commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now the prey, over and above the booty which the men of war took, was six hundred thousand and seventy thousand and five thousand sheep, <a id="c31_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and threescore and twelve thousand oxen, <a id="c31_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and threescore and one thousand asses, <a id="c31_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and thirty and two thousand persons in all, of the women that had not known man by lying with him. <a id="c31_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the half, which was the portion of them that went out to war, was in number three hundred thousand and thirty thousand and seven thousand and five hundred sheep: <a id="c31_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and Jehovah’s tribute of the sheep was six hundred and threescore and fifteen. <a id="c31_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the oxen were thirty and six thousand; of which Jehovah’s tribute was threescore and twelve. <a id="c31_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the asses were thirty thousand and five hundred; of which Jehovah’s tribute was threescore and one. <a id="c31_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the persons were sixteen thousand; of whom Jehovah’s tribute was thirty and two persons. <a id="c31_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And Moses gave the tribute, which was Jehovah’s heave-offering, unto Eleazar the priest, as Jehovah commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And of the children of Israel’s half, which Moses divided off from the men that warred <a id="c31_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> (now the congregation’s half was three hundred thousand and thirty thousand, seven thousand and five hundred sheep, <a id="c31_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and thirty and six thousand oxen, <a id="c31_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and thirty thousand and five hundred asses, <a id="c31_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> and sixteen thousand persons), <a id="c31_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> even of the children of Israel’s half, Moses took one drawn out of every fifty, both of man and of beast, and gave them unto the Levites, that kept the charge of the tabernacle of Jehovah; as Jehovah commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And the officers that were over the thousands of the host, the captains of thousands, and the captains of hundreds, came near unto Moses; <a id="c31_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> and they said unto Moses, Thy servants have taken the sum of the men of war that are under our charge, and there lacketh not one man of us. <a id="c31_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And we have brought Jehovah’s oblation, what every man hath gotten, of jewels of gold, ankle-chains, and bracelets, signet-rings, ear-rings, and armlets, to make atonement for our souls before Jehovah. <a id="c31_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of them, even all wrought jewels. <a id="c31_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And all the gold of the heave-offering that they offered up to Jehovah, of the captains of thousands, and of the captains of hundreds, was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty shekels. <a id="c31_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> ( For the men of war had taken booty, every man for himself.) <a id="c31_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the tent of meeting, for a memorial for the children of Israel before Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>