<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, every male, by their polls; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> from twenty years old and upward, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel, thou and Aaron shall number them by their hosts. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one head of his fathers’ house. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you. Of Reuben: Elizur the son of Shedeur. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Of Simeon: Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Of Judah: Nahshon the son of Amminadab. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Of Issachar: Nethanel the son of Zuar. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Of Zebulun: Eliab the son of Helon. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Of the children of Joseph: Of Ephraim: Elishama the son of Ammihud. Of Manasseh: Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Of Benjamin: Abidan the son of Gideoni. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Of Dan: Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Of Asher: Pagiel the son of Ochran. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Of Gad: Eliasaph the son of Deuel. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Of Naphtali: Ahira the son of Enan. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These are they that were called of the congregation, the princes of the tribes of their fathers; they were the heads of the thousands of Israel. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Moses and Aaron took these men that are mentioned by name: <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they assembled all the congregation together on the first day of the second month; and they declared their pedigrees after their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As Jehovah commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the children of Reuben, Israel’s first-born, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Reuben, were forty and six thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Of the children of Simeon, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, those that were numbered thereof, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Simeon, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Of the children of Gad, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Gad, were forty and five thousand six hundred and fifty. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Of the children of Judah, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Judah, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Of the children of Issachar, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Issachar, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Of the children of Zebulun, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Zebulun, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Of the children of Joseph, namely, of the children of Ephraim, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Ephraim, were forty thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Of the children of Manasseh, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Manasseh, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Of the children of Benjamin, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Benjamin, were thirty and five thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Of the children of Dan, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Dan, were threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Of the children of Asher, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Asher, were forty and one thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Of the children of Naphtali, their generations, by their families, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> those that were numbered of them, of the tribe of Naphtali, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> These are they that were numbered, whom Moses and Aaron numbered, and the princes of Israel, being twelve men: they were each one for his fathers’ house. <a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> So all they that were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers’ houses, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war in Israel; <a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> even all they that were numbered were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were not numbered among them. <a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> For Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Only the tribe of Levi thou shalt not number, neither shalt thou take the sum of them among the children of Israel; <a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> but appoint thou the Levites over the tabernacle of the testimony, and over all the furniture thereof, and over all that belongeth to it: they shall bear the tabernacle, and all the furniture thereof; and they shall minister unto it, and shall encamp round about the tabernacle. <a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Levites shall take it down; and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shall set it up: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. <a id="c1_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And the children of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man by his own camp, and every man by his own standard, according to their hosts. <a id="c1_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> But the Levites shall encamp round about the tabernacle of the testimony, that there be no wrath upon the congregation of the children of Israel: and the Levites shall keep the charge of the tabernacle of the testimony. <a id="c1_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Thus did the children of Israel; according to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so did they.</p>

</body>
</html>