<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My oblation, my food for my offerings made by fire, of a sweet savor unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto Jehovah: he-lambs a year old without blemish, two day by day, for a continual burnt-offering. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even; <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with the fourth part of a hin of beaten oil. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> It is a continual burnt-offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the drink-offering thereof shall be the fourth part of a hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou pour out a drink-offering of strong drink unto Jehovah. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meal-offering of the morning, and as the drink-offering thereof, thou shalt offer it, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And on the sabbath day two he-lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, and the drink-offering thereof: <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> this is the burnt-offering of every sabbath, besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, seven he-lambs a year old without blemish; <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and three tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for each bullock; and two tenth parts of fine flour for a meal-offering, mingled with oil, for the one ram; <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and a tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for a meal-offering unto every lamb; for a burnt-offering of a sweet savor, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And their drink-offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bullock, and the third part of a hin for the ram, and the fourth part of a hin for a lamb: this is the burnt-offering of every month throughout the months of the year. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And one he-goat for a sin-offering unto Jehovah; it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, is Jehovah’s passover. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And on the fifteenth day of this month shall be a feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In the first day shall be a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work; <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but ye shall offer an offering made by fire, a burnt-offering unto Jehovah: two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven he-lambs a year old; they shall be unto you without blemish; <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil: three tenth parts shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth parts for the ram; <a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> a tenth part shalt thou offer for every lamb of the seven lambs; <a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and one he-goat for a sin-offering, to make atonement for you. <a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ye shall offer these besides the burnt-offering of the morning, which is for a continual burnt-offering. <a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> After this manner ye shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of the offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah: it shall be offered besides the continual burnt-offering, and the drink-offering thereof. <a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And on the seventh day ye shall have a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Also in the day of the first-fruits, when ye offer a new meal-offering unto Jehovah in your feast of weeks, ye shall have a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work; <a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> but ye shall offer a burnt-offering for a sweet savor unto Jehovah: two young bullocks, one ram, seven he-lambs a year old; <a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and their meal-offering, fine flour mingled with oil, three tenth parts for each bullock, two tenth parts for the one ram, <a id="c28_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> a tenth part for every lamb of the seven lambs; <a id="c28_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> one he-goat, to make atonement for you. <a id="c28_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Besides the continual burnt-offering, and the meal-offering thereof, ye shall offer them (they shall be unto you without blemish), and their drink-offerings.</p>

</body>
</html>