<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled themselves together at Shiloh, and set up the tent of meeting there: and the land was subdued before them. <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And there remained among the children of Israel seven tribes, which had not yet divided their inheritance. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, How long are ye slack to go in to possess the land, which Jehovah, the God of your fathers, hath given you? <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Appoint for you three men of each tribe: and I will send them, and they shall arise, and walk through the land, and describe it according to their inheritance; and they shall come unto me. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they shall divide it into seven portions: Judah shall abide in his border on the south, and the house of Joseph shall abide in their border on the north. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And ye shall describe the land into seven portions, and bring the description hither to me; and I will cast lots for you here before Jehovah our God. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the Levites have no portion among you; for the priesthood of Jehovah is their inheritance: and Gad and Reuben and the half-tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan eastward, which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the men arose, and went: and Joshua charged them that went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, and describe it, and come again to me; and I will cast lots for you here before Jehovah in Shiloh. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the men went and passed through the land, and described it by cities into seven portions in a book; and they came to Joshua unto the camp at Shiloh. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before Jehovah: and there Joshua divided the land unto the children of Israel according to their divisions.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families: and the border of their lot went out between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their border on the north quarter was from the Jordan; and the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north, and went up through the hill-country westward; and the goings out thereof were at the wilderness of Beth-aven. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the border passed along from thence to Luz, to the side of Luz (the same is Beth-el), southward; and the border went down to Ataroth-addar, by the mountain that lieth on the south of Beth-horon the nether. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the border extended thence, and turned about on the west quarter southward, from the mountain that lieth before Beth-horon southward; and the goings out thereof were at Kiriath-baal (the same is Kiriath-jearim), a city of the children of Judah: this was the west quarter. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the south quarter was from the uttermost part of Kiriath-jearim; and the border went out westward, and went out to the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah; <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the border went down to the uttermost part of the mountain that lieth before the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the vale of Rephaim northward; and it went down to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite southward, and went down to En-rogel; <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and it extended northward, and went out at En-shemesh, and went out to Geliloth, which is over against the ascent of Adummim; and it went down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben; <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and it passed along to the side over against the Arabah northward, and went down unto the Arabah; <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the border passed along to the side of Beth-hoglah northward; and the goings out of the border were at the north bay of the Salt Sea, at the south end of the Jordan: this was the south border. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the Jordan was the border of it on the east quarter. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, by the borders thereof round about, according to their families.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho, and Beth-hoglah, and Emek-keziz, <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and Beth-arabah, and Zemaraim, and Beth-el, <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and Avvim, and Parah, and Ophrah, <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and Chephar-ammoni, and Ophni, and Geba; twelve cities with their villages: <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth, <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah, <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah, <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Zelah, Eleph, and the Jebusite (the same is Jerusalem), Gibeath, and Kiriath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.</p>

</body>
</html>