<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ruth 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ruth 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass in the days when the judges judged, that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem-judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites of Bethlehem-judah. And they came into the country of Moab, and continued there. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Elimelech, Naomi’s husband, died; and she was left, and her two sons. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they dwelt there about ten years. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Mahlon and Chilion died both of them; and the woman was left of her two children and of her husband.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then she arose with her daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab: for she had heard in the country of Moab how that Jehovah had visited his people in giving them bread. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she went forth out of the place where she was, and her two daughters-in-law with her; and they went on the way to return unto the land of Judah. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Naomi said unto her two daughters-in-law, Go, return each of you to her mother’s house: Jehovah deal kindly with you, as ye have dealt with the dead, and with me. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jehovah grant you that ye may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voice, and wept. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they said unto her, Nay, but we will return with thee unto thy people. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will ye go with me? have I yet sons in my womb, that they may be your husbands? <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Turn again, my daughters, go your way; for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say, I have hope, if I should even have a husband to-night, and should also bear sons; <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> would ye therefore tarry till they were grown? would ye therefore stay from having husbands? nay, my daughters, for it grieveth me much for your sakes, for the hand of Jehovah is gone forth against me. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clave unto her.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is gone back unto her people, and unto her god: return thou after thy sister-in-law. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee, and to return from following after thee, for whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God; <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: Jehovah do so to me, and more also, if aught but death part thee and me. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And when she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her, she left off speaking unto her.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So they two went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came to pass, when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city was moved about them, and the women said, Is this Naomi? <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And she said unto them, Call me not Naomi, call me Mara; for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I went out full, and Jehovah hath brought me home again empty; why call ye me Naomi, seeing Jehovah hath testified against me, and the Almighty hath afflicted me? <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter-in-law, with her, who returned out of the country of Moab: and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest.</p>

</body>
</html>