<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle; and they were gathered together at Socoh, which belongeth to Judah, and encamped between Socoh and Azekah, in Ephes-dammim. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and encamped in the vale of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was clad with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a javelin of brass between his shoulders. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the staff of his spear was like a weaver’s beam; and his spear’s head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and his shield-bearer went before him. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If he be able to fight with me, and kill me, then will we be your servants; but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Beth-lehem-judah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man was an old man in the days of Saul, stricken in years among men. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the three eldest sons of Jesse had gone after Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the first-born, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And David was the youngest; and the three eldest followed Saul. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now David went to and fro from Saul to feed his father’s sheep at Beth-lehem. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and bring these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge. <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the vale of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the place of the wagons, as the host which was going forth to the fight shouted for the battle. <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Israel and the Philistines put the battle in array, army against army. <a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And David left his baggage in the hand of the keeper of the baggage, and ran to the army, and came and saluted his brethren. <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the ranks of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them. <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid. <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father’s house free in Israel. <a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God? <a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab’s anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why art thou come down? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thy heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. <a id="c17_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? <a id="c17_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he turned away from him toward another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And when the words were heard which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul; and he sent for him. <a id="c17_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And David said to Saul, Let no man’s heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine. <a id="c17_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him; for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth. <a id="c17_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And David said unto Saul, Thy servant was keeping his father’s sheep; and when there came a lion, or a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock, <a id="c17_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth; and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him. <a id="c17_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Thy servant smote both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God. <a id="c17_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And David said, Jehovah that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and Jehovah shall be with thee. <a id="c17_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Saul clad David with his apparel, and he put a helmet of brass upon his head, and he clad him with a coat of mail. <a id="c17_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And David girded his sword upon his apparel, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him. <a id="c17_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in the shepherd’s bag which he had, even in his wallet; and his sling was in his hand: and he drew near to the Philistine.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him. <a id="c17_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And when the Philistine looked about, and saw David, he disdained him; for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and withal of a fair countenance. <a id="c17_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. <a id="c17_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh unto the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field. <a id="c17_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a javelin: but I come to thee in the name of Jehovah of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. <a id="c17_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> This day will Jehovah deliver thee into my hand; and I will smite thee, and take thy head from off thee; and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day unto the birds of the heavens, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel, <a id="c17_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and that all this assembly may know that Jehovah saveth not with sword and spear: for the battle is Jehovah’s, and he will give you into our hand. <a id="c17_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came and drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine. <a id="c17_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead; and the stone sank into his forehead, and he fell upon his face to the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David. <a id="c17_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Then David ran, and stood over the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw that their champion was dead, they fled. <a id="c17_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou comest to Gai, and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron. <a id="c17_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they plundered their camp. <a id="c17_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armor in his tent.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell. <a id="c17_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And the king said, Inquire thou whose son the stripling is. <a id="c17_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand. <a id="c17_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And Saul said to him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Beth-lehemite.</p>

</body>
</html>