<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, when the king dwelt in his house, and Jehovah had given him rest from all his enemies round about, <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thy heart; for Jehovah is with thee. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it came to pass the same night, that the word of Jehovah came unto Nathan, saying, <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Go and tell my servant David, Thus saith Jehovah, Shalt thou build me a house for me to dwell in? <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In all places wherein I have walked with all the children of Israel, spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to be shepherd of my people Israel, saying, Why have ye not built me a house of cedar? <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be prince over my people, over Israel; <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and I have been with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee; and I will make thee a great name, like unto the name of the great ones that are in the earth. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as at the first, <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and as from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel; and I will cause thee to rest from all thine enemies. Moreover Jehovah telleth thee that Jehovah will make thee a house. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When thy days are fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, that shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom for ever. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will be his father, and he shall be my son: if he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men; <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> but my lovingkindness shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thy house and thy kingdom shall be made sure for ever before thee: thy throne shall be established for ever. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then David the king went in, and sat before Jehovah; and he said, Who am I, O Lord Jehovah, and what is my house, that thou hast brought me thus far? <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And this was yet a small thing in thine eyes, O Lord Jehovah; but thou hast spoken also of thy servant’s house for a great while to come; and this too after the manner of men, O Lord Jehovah! <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And what can David say more unto thee? for thou knowest thy servant, O Lord Jehovah. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For thy word’s sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou wrought all this greatness, to make thy servant know it. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wherefore thou art great, O Jehovah God: for there is none like thee, neither is there any God besides thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And what one nation in the earth is like thy people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem unto himself for a people, and to make him a name, and to do great things for you, and terrible things for thy land, before thy people, whom thou redeemest to thee out of Egypt, from the nations and their gods? <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And thou didst establish to thyself thy people Israel to be a people unto thee for ever; and thou, Jehovah, becamest their God. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And now, O Jehovah God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, confirm thou it for ever, and do as thou hast spoken. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And let thy name be magnified for ever, saying, Jehovah of hosts is God over Israel; and the house of thy servant David shall be established before thee. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For thou, O Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, hast revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee a house: therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer unto thee. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And now, O Lord Jehovah, thou art God, and thy words are truth, and thou hast promised this good thing unto thy servant: <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> now therefore let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee; for thou, O Lord Jehovah, hast spoken it: and with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for ever.</p>

</body>
</html>