<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Ziklag; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> it came to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head: and so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and did obeisance. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And David said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And David said unto him, How went the matter? I pray thee, tell me. And he answered, The people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead? <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the young man that told him said, As I happened by chance upon mount Gilboa, behold, Saul was leaning upon his spear; and, lo, the chariots and the horsemen followed hard after him. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when he looked behind him, he saw me, and called unto me. And I answered, Here am I. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I answered him, I am an Amalekite. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said unto me, Stand, I pray thee, beside me, and slay me; for anguish hath taken hold of me, because my life is yet whole in me. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So I stood beside him, and slew him, because I was sure that he could not live after that he was fallen: and I took the crown that was upon his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them hither unto my lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then David took hold on his clothes, and rent them; and likewise all the men that were with him: <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and they mourned, and wept, and fasted until even, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of Jehovah, and for the house of Israel; because they were fallen by the sword. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And David said unto the young man that told him, Whence art thou? And he answered, I am the son of a sojourner, an Amalekite. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And David said unto him, How wast thou not afraid to put forth thy hand to destroy Jehovah’s anointed? <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And David called one of the young men, and said, Go near, and fall upon him. And he smote him, so that he died. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And David said unto him, Thy blood be upon thy head; for thy mouth hath testified against thee, saying, I have slain Jehovah’s anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (and he bade them teach the children of Judah the song of the bow: behold, it is written in the book of Jashar): <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy glory, O Israel, is slain upon thy high places! How are the mighty fallen! <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Tell it not in Gath, Publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon; Lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, Lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Ye mountains of Gilboa, Let there be no dew nor rain upon you, neither fields of offerings: For there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, The shield of Saul, not anointed with oil. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, The bow of Jonathan turned not back, And the sword of Saul returned not empty. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, And in their death they were not divided: They were swifter than eagles, They were stronger than lions. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, Who clothed you in scarlet delicately, Who put ornaments of gold upon your apparel. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain upon thy high places. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan: Very pleasant hast thou been unto me: Thy love to me was wonderful, Passing the love of women. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> How are the mighty fallen, And the weapons of war perished!</p>

</body>
</html>