<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now king David was old and stricken in years; and they covered him with clothes, but he gat no heat. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wherefore his servants said unto him, Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin: and let her stand before the king, and cherish him; and let her lie in thy bosom, that my lord the king may get heat. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the borders of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the damsel was very fair; and she cherished the king, and ministered to him; but the king knew her not.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, I will be king: and he prepared him chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why hast thou done so? and he was also a very goodly man; and he was born after Absalom. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest: and they following Adonijah helped him. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty men that belonged to David, were not with Adonijah. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Adonijah slew sheep and oxen and fatlings by the stone of Zoheleth, which is beside En-rogel; and he called all his brethren, the king’s sons, and all the men of Judah, the king’s servants: <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah, and the mighty men, and Solomon his brother, he called not.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then Nathan spake unto Bath-sheba the mother of Solomon, saying, Hast thou not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith doth reign, and David our lord knoweth it not? <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now therefore come, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel, that thou mayest save thine own life, and the life of thy son Solomon. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Go and get thee in unto king David, and say unto him, Didst not thou, my lord, O king, swear unto thy handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? why then doth Adonijah reign? <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, while thou yet talkest there with the king, I also will come in after thee, and confirm thy words.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Bath-sheba went in unto the king into the chamber: and the king was very old; and Abishag the Shunammite was ministering unto the king. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Bath-sheba bowed, and did obeisance unto the king. And the king said, What wouldest thou? <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And she said unto him, My lord, thou swarest by Jehovah thy God unto thy handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And now, behold, Adonijah reigneth; and thou, my lord the king, knowest it not: <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and he hath slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and hath called all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the captain of the host; but Solomon thy servant hath he not called. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And thou, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are upon thee, that thou shouldest tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Otherwise it will come to pass, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And, lo, while she yet talked with the king, Nathan the prophet came in. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they told the king, saying, Behold, Nathan the prophet. And when he was come in before the king, he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Nathan said, My lord, O king, hast thou said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he is gone down this day, and hath slain oxen and fatlings and sheep in abundance, and hath called all the king’s sons, and the captains of the host, and Abiathar the priest; and, behold, they are eating and drinking before him, and say, Long live king Adonijah. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But me, even me thy servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and thy servant Solomon, hath he not called. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Is this thing done by my lord the king, and thou hast not showed unto thy servants who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then king David answered and said, Call to me Bath-sheba. And she came into the king’s presence, and stood before the king. <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the king sware, and said, As Jehovah liveth, who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity, <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> verily as I sware unto thee by Jehovah, the God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead; verily so will I do this day. <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then Bath-sheba bowed with her face to the earth, and did obeisance to the king, and said, Let my lord king David live for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And king David said, Call to me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada. And they came before the king. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the king said unto them, Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride upon mine own mule, and bring him down to Gihon: <a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel; and blow ye the trumpet, and say, Long live king Solomon. <a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Then ye shall come up after him, and he shall come and sit upon my throne; for he shall be king in my stead; and I have appointed him to be prince over Israel and over Judah. <a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king, and said, Amen: Jehovah, the God of my lord the king, say so too. <a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> As Jehovah hath been with my lord the king, even so be he with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord king David.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> So Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, went down, and caused Solomon to ride upon king David’s mule, and brought him to Gihon. <a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Zadok the priest took the horn of oil out of the Tent, and anointed Solomon. And they blew the trumpet; and all the people said, Long live king Solomon. <a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And all the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with great joy, so that the earth rent with the sound of them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And Adonijah and all the guests that were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating. And when Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, Wherefore is this noise of the city being in an uproar? <a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> While he yet spake, behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came: and Adonijah said, Come in; for thou art a worthy man, and bringest good tidings. <a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, Verily our lord king David hath made Solomon king: <a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and the king hath sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and they have caused him to ride upon the king’s mule; <a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon; and they are come up from thence rejoicing, so that the city rang again. This is the noise that ye have heard. <a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And also Solomon sitteth on the throne of the kingdom. <a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And moreover the king’s servants came to bless our lord king David, saying, Thy God make the name of Solomon better than thy name, and make his throne greater than thy throne: and the king bowed himself upon the bed. <a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And also thus said the king, Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, who hath given one to sit on my throne this day, mine eyes even seeing it.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And all the guests of Adonijah were afraid, and rose up, and went every man his way. <a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Adonijah feared because of Solomon; and he arose, and went, and caught hold on the horns of the altar. <a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And it was told Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah feareth king Solomon; for, lo, he hath laid hold on the horns of the altar, saying, Let king Solomon swear unto me first that he will not slay his servant with the sword. <a id="c1_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And Solomon said, If he shall show himself a worthy man, there shall not a hair of him fall to the earth; but if wickedness be found in him, he shall die. <a id="c1_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> So king Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and did obeisance to king Solomon; and Solomon said unto him, Go to thy house.</p>

</body>
</html>