<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And they brought in the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it: and they offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before God. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when David had made an end of offering the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings, he blessed the people in the name of Jehovah. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every one a loaf of bread, and a portion of flesh, and a cake of raisins.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the ark of Jehovah, and to celebrate and to thank and praise Jehovah, the God of Israel: <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, with psalteries and with harps; and Asaph with cymbals, sounding aloud; <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets continually, before the ark of the covenant of God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then on that day did David first ordain to give thanks unto Jehovah, by the hand of Asaph and his brethren. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O give thanks unto Jehovah, call upon his name; Make known his doings among the peoples. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Sing unto him, sing praises unto him; Talk ye of all his marvellous works. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Glory ye in his holy name; Let the heart of them rejoice that seek Jehovah. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Seek ye Jehovah and his strength; Seek his face evermore. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, His wonders, and the judgments of his mouth, <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O ye seed of Israel his servant, Ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He is Jehovah our God; His judgments are in all the earth. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Remember his covenant for ever, The word which he commanded to a thousand generations, <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The covenant which he made with Abraham, And his oath unto Isaac, <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a statute, To Israel for an everlasting covenant, <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, The lot of your inheritance; <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> When ye were but a few men in number, Yea, very few, and sojourners in it; <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they went about from nation to nation, And from one kingdom to another people. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He suffered no man to do them wrong; Yea, he reproved kings for their sakes, <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Saying, Touch not mine anointed ones, And do my prophets no harm. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Sing unto Jehovah, all the earth; Show forth his salvation from day to day. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Declare his glory among the nations, His marvellous works among all the peoples. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For great is Jehovah, and greatly to be praised: He also is to be feared above all gods. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For all the gods of the peoples are idols: But Jehovah made the heavens. <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Honor and majesty are before him: Strength and gladness are in his place. <a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ascribe unto Jehovah, ye kindreds of the peoples, Ascribe unto Jehovah glory and strength; <a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Ascribe unto Jehovah the glory due unto his name: Bring an offering, and come before him: Worship Jehovah in holy array. <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Tremble before him, all the earth: The world also is established that it cannot be moved. <a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; And let them say among the nations, Jehovah reigneth. <a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; Let the field exult, and all that is therein; <a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then shall the trees of the wood sing for joy before Jehovah; For he cometh to judge the earth. <a id="c16_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> O give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness endureth for ever. <a id="c16_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, And gather us together and deliver us from the nations, To give thanks unto thy holy name, And to triumph in thy praise. <a id="c16_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, From everlasting even to everlasting.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> So he left there, before the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, Asaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, as every day’s work required; <a id="c16_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and Obed-edom with their brethren, threescore and eight; Obed-edom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to be doorkeepers; <a id="c16_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, before the tabernacle of Jehovah in the high place that was at Gibeon, <a id="c16_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> to offer burnt-offerings unto Jehovah upon the altar of burnt-offering continually morning and evening, even according to all that is written in the law of Jehovah, which he commanded unto Israel; <a id="c16_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> and with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest that were chosen, who were mentioned by name, to give thanks to Jehovah, because his lovingkindness endureth for ever; <a id="c16_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and with them Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should sound aloud, and with instruments for the songs of God; and the sons of Jeduthun to be at the gate. <a id="c16_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And all the people departed every man to his house: and David returned to bless his house.</p>

</body>
</html>