<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For the courses of the doorkeepers: of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph. <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the first-born, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh. <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the first-born, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethanel the fifth, <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth; for God blessed him. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled over the house of their father; for they were mighty men of valor. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brethren were valiant men, Elihu, and Semachiah. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All these were of the sons of Obed-edom: they and their sons and their brethren, able men in strength for the service; threescore and two of Obed-edom. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, valiant men, eighteen. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons: Shimri the chief, (for though he was not the first-born, yet his father made him chief), <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Of these were the courses of the doorkeepers, even of the chief men, having offices like their brethren, to minister in the house of Jehovah. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according to their fathers’ houses, for every gate. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his son, a discreet counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot came out northward. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To Obed-edom southward; and to his sons the store-house. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To Shuppim and Hosah westward, by the gate of Shallecheth, at the causeway that goeth up, watch against watch. <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and for the store-house two and two. <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These were the courses of the doorkeepers; of the sons of the Korahites, and of the sons of Merari.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, the heads of the fathers’ houses belonging to Ladan the Gershonite: Jehieli. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sons of Jehieli: Zetham, and Joel his brother, over the treasures of the house of Jehovah. <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Of the Amramites, of the Izharites, of the Hebronites, of the Uzzielites: <a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was ruler over the treasures. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And his brethren: of Eliezer came Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomoth his son. <a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> This Shelomoth and his brethren were over all the treasures of the dedicated things, which David the king, and the heads of the fathers’ houses, the captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host, had dedicated. <a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Out of the spoil won in battles did they dedicate to repair the house of Jehovah. <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated, whosoever had dedicated anything, it was under the hand of Shelomoth, and of his brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges. <a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men of valor, a thousand and seven hundred, had the oversight of Israel beyond the Jordan westward, for all the business of Jehovah, and for the service of the king. <a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Of the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even of the Hebronites, according to their generations by fathers’ houses. In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there were found among them mighty men of valor at Jazer of Gilead. <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And his brethren, men of valor, were two thousand and seven hundred, heads of fathers’ houses, whom king David made overseers over the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of the Manassites, for every matter pertaining to God, and for the affairs of the king.</p>

</body>
</html>