<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In times past, even when Saul was king, it was thou that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and Jehovah thy God said unto thee, Thou shalt be shepherd of my people Israel, and thou shalt be prince over my people Israel. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before Jehovah; and they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of Jehovah by Samuel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem (the same is Jebus); and the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were there. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, Thou shalt not come in hither. Nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion; the same is the city of David. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain. And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, and was made chief. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And David dwelt in the stronghold; therefore they called it the city of David. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he built the city round about, from Millo even round about; and Joab repaired the rest of the city. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David waxed greater and greater; for Jehovah of hosts was with him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now these are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who showed themselves strong with him in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of Jehovah concerning Israel. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, the chief of the thirty; he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them at one time. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighty men. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines were gathered together to battle, where was a plot of ground full of barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they stood in the midst of the plot, and defended it, and slew the Philistines; and Jehovah saved them by a great victory.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam; and the host of the Philistines were encamped in the valley of Rephaim. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beth-lehem. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me water to drink of the well of Beth-lehem, which is by the gate! <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the three brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Beth-lehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David: but David would not drink thereof, but poured it out unto Jehovah, <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and said, My God forbid it me, that I should do this: shall I drink the blood of these men that have put their lives in jeopardy? for with the jeopardy of their lives they brought it. Therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Abishai, the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three; for he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them, and had a name among the three. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Of the three, he was more honorable than the two, and was made their captain: howbeit he attained not to the first three.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, he slew the two sons of Ariel of Moab: he went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits high; and in the Egyptian’s hand was a spear like a weaver’s beam; and he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand, and slew him with his own spear. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had a name among the three mighty men. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Behold, he was more honorable than the thirty, but he attained not to the first three: and David set him over his guard.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Also the mighty men of the armies: Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beth-lehem, <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite, <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite, <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite, <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite, <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite, <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur, <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, <a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai, <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri, <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armorbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, <a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai, <a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a chief of the Reubenites, and thirty with him, <a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite, <a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite, <a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite, <a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite, <a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.</p>

</body>
</html>