<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Of a truth I know that it is so: But how can man be just with God? <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If he be pleased to contend with him, He cannot answer him one of a thousand. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: Who hath hardened himself against him, and prospered?- <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Him that removeth the mountains, and they know it not, When he overturneth them in his anger; <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That shaketh the earth out of its place, And the pillars thereof tremble; <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> That commandeth the sun, and it riseth not, And sealeth up the stars; <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> That alone stretcheth out the heavens, And treadeth upon the waves of the sea; <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That maketh the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades, And the chambers of the south; <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> That doeth great things past finding out, Yea, marvellous things without number. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not: He passeth on also, but I perceive him not. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, he seizeth the prey, who can hinder him? Who will say unto him, What doest thou?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> God will not withdraw his anger; The helpers of Rahab do stoop under him. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How much less shall I answer him, And choose out my words to reason with him? <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not answer; I would make supplication to my judge. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If I had called, and he had answered me, Yet would I not believe that he hearkened unto my voice. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For he breaketh me with a tempest, And multiplieth my wounds without cause. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He will not suffer me to take my breath, But filleth me with bitterness. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If we speak of strength, lo, he is mighty! And if of justice, Who, saith he, will summon me? <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Though I be righteous, mine own mouth shall condemn me: Though I be perfect, it shall prove me perverse. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I am perfect; I regard not myself; I despise my life. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It is all one; therefore I say, He destroyeth the perfect and the wicked. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If the scourge slay suddenly, He will mock at the trial of the innocent. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The earth is given into the hand of the wicked; He covereth the faces of the judges thereof: If it be not he, who then is it?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now my days are swifter than a post: They flee away, they see no good, <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They are passed away as the swift ships; As the eagle that swoopeth on the prey. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will put off my sad countenance, and be of good cheer; <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I am afraid of all my sorrows, I know that thou wilt not hold me innocent. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I shall be condemned; Why then do I labor in vain? <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If I wash myself with snow water, And make my hands never so clean; <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Yet wilt thou plunge me in the ditch, And mine own clothes shall abhor me. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, That we should come together in judgment. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> There is no umpire betwixt us, That might lay his hand upon us both. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let him take his rod away from me, And let not his terror make me afraid: <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Then would I speak, and not fear him; For I am not so in myself.</p>

</body>
</html>