<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said, <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If one assay to commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved? But who can withhold himself from speaking? <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, thou hast instructed many, And thou hast strengthened the weak hands. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy words have upholden him that was falling, And thou hast made firm the feeble knees. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now it is come unto thee, and thou faintest; It toucheth thee, and thou art troubled. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Is not thy fear of God thy confidence, And the integrity of thy ways thy hope? <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished, being innocent? Or where were the upright cut off? <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> According as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, And sow trouble, reap the same. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By the breath of God they perish, And by the blast of his anger are they consumed. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, And the teeth of the young lions, are broken. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, And the whelps of the lioness are scattered abroad.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now a thing was secretly brought to me, And mine ear received a whisper thereof. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In thoughts from the visions of the night, When deep sleep falleth on men, <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Fear came upon me, and trembling, Which made all my bones to shake. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then a spirit passed before my face; The hair of my flesh stood up. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It stood still, but I could not discern the appearance thereof; A form was before mine eyes: There was silence, and I heard a voice, saying, <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shall mortal man be more just than God? Shall a man be more pure than his Maker? <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, he putteth no trust in his servants; And his angels he chargeth with folly: <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How much more them that dwell in houses of clay, Whose foundation is in the dust, Who are crushed before the moth! <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Betwixt morning and evening they are destroyed: They perish for ever without any regarding it. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Is not their tent-cord plucked up within them? They die, and that without wisdom.</p>

</body>
</html>