<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I made a covenant with mine eyes; How then should I look upon a virgin? <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For what is the portion from God above, And the heritage from the Almighty on high? <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is it not calamity to the unrighteous, And disaster to the workers of iniquity? <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Doth not he see my ways, And number all my steps?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If I have walked with falsehood, And my foot hath hasted to deceit <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> (Let me be weighed in an even balance, That God may know mine integrity); <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If my step hath turned out of the way, And my heart walked after mine eyes, And if any spot hath cleaved to my hands: <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then let me sow, and let another eat; Yea, let the produce of my field be rooted out.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If my heart hath been enticed unto a woman, And I have laid wait at my neighbor’s door; <a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then let my wife grind unto another, And let others bow down upon her. <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For that were a heinous crime; Yea, it were an iniquity to be punished by the judges: <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For it is a fire that consumeth unto Destruction, And would root out all mine increase. <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I have despised the cause of my man-servant or of my maid-servant, When they contended with me; <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What then shall I do when God riseth up? And when he visiteth, what shall I answer him? <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Did not he that made me in the womb make him? And did not one fashion us in the womb? <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If I have withheld the poor from their desire, Or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail, <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Or have eaten my morsel alone, And the fatherless hath not eaten thereof <a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (Nay, from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, And her have I guided from my mother’s womb); <a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If I have seen any perish for want of clothing, Or that the needy had no covering; <a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If his loins have not blessed me, And if he hath not been warmed with the fleece of my sheep; <a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, Because I saw my help in the gate: <a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then let my shoulder fall from the shoulder-blade, And mine arm be broken from the bone. <a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For calamity from God is a terror to me, And by reason of his majesty I can do nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I have made gold my hope, And have said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence; <a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If I have rejoiced because my wealth was great, And because my hand had gotten much; <a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If I have beheld the sun when it shined, Or the moon walking in brightness, <a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And my heart hath been secretly enticed, And my mouth hath kissed my hand: <a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judges; For I should have denied the God that is above. <a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> If I have rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, Or lifted up myself when evil found him; <a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> (Yea, I have not suffered by mouth to sin By asking his life with a curse); <a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If the men of my tent have not said, Who can find one that hath not been filled with his meat? <a id="c31_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> (The sojourner hath not lodged in the street; But I have opened my doors to the traveller); <a id="c31_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If like Adam I have covered my transgressions, By hiding mine iniquity in my bosom, <a id="c31_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Because I feared the great multitude, And the contempt of families terrified me, So that I kept silence, and went not out of the door- <a id="c31_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Oh that I had one to hear me! (Lo, here is my signature, let the Almighty answer me); And that I had the indictment which mine adversary hath written! <a id="c31_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Surely I would carry it upon my shoulder; I would bind it unto me as a crown: <a id="c31_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I would declare unto him the number of my steps; As a prince would I go near unto him. <a id="c31_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> If my land crieth out against me, And the furrows thereof weep together; <a id="c31_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, Or have caused the owners thereof to lose their life: <a id="c31_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Let thistles grow instead of wheat, And cockle instead of barley.</p>

</body>
</html>