<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Canst thou draw out leviathan with a fishhook? Or press down his tongue with a cord? <a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Canst thou put a rope into his nose? Or pierce his jaw through with a hook? <a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Will he make many supplications unto thee? Or will he speak soft words unto thee? <a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will he make a covenant with thee, That thou shouldest take him for a servant for ever? <a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? Or wilt thou bind him for thy maidens? <a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Will the bands of fishermen make traffic of him? Will they part him among the merchants? <a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons, Or his head with fish-spears? <a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lay thy hand upon him; Remember the battle, and do so no more. <a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the hope of him is in vain: Will not one be cast down even at the sight of him? <a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> None is so fierce that he dare stir him up; Who then is he that can stand before me? <a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who hath first given unto me, that I should repay him? Whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will not keep silence concerning his limbs, Nor his mighty strength, nor his goodly frame. <a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who can strip off his outer garment? Who shall come within his jaws? <a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who can open the doors of his face? Round about his teeth is terror. <a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> His strong scales are his pride, Shut up together as with a close seal. <a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> One is so near to another, That no air can come between them. <a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They are joined one to another; They stick together, so that they cannot be sundered. <a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His sneezings flash forth light, And his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning. <a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Out of his mouth go burning torches, And sparks of fire leap forth. <a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Out of his nostrils a smoke goeth, As of a boiling pot and burning rushes. <a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His breath kindleth coals, And a flame goeth forth from his mouth. <a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In his neck abideth strength, And terror danceth before him. <a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The flakes of his flesh are joined together: They are firm upon him; they cannot be moved. <a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His heart is as firm as a stone; Yea, firm as the nether millstone. <a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When he raiseth himself up, the mighty are afraid: By reason of consternation they are beside themselves. <a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If one lay at him with the sword, it cannot avail; Nor the spear, the dart, nor the pointed shaft. <a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He counteth iron as straw, And brass as rotten wood. <a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The arrow cannot make him flee: Sling-stones are turned with him into stubble. <a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Clubs are counted as stubble: He laugheth at the rushing of the javelin. <a id="c41_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> His underparts are like sharp potsherds: He spreadeth as it were a threshing-wain upon the mire. <a id="c41_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He maketh the deep to boil like a pot: He maketh the sea like a pot of ointment. <a id="c41_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep to be hoary. <a id="c41_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Upon earth there is not his like, That is made without fear. <a id="c41_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He beholdeth everything that is high: He is king over all the sons of pride.</p>

</body>
</html>