<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How hast thou helped him that is without power! How hast thou saved the arm that hath no strength! <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> How hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom, And plentifully declared sound knowledge! <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To whom hast thou uttered words? And whose spirit came forth from thee?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They that are deceased tremble Beneath the waters and the inhabitants thereof. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sheol is naked before God, And Abaddon hath no covering. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He stretcheth out the north over empty space, And hangeth the earth upon nothing. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; And the cloud is not rent under them. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He incloseth the face of his throne, And spreadeth his cloud upon it. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He hath described a boundary upon the face of the waters, Unto the confines of light and darkness. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The pillars of heaven tremble And are astonished at his rebuke. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He stirreth up the sea with his power, And by his understanding he smiteth through Rahab. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> By his Spirit the heavens are garnished; His hand hath pierced the swift serpent. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Lo, these are but the outskirts of his ways: And how small a whisper do we hear of him! But the thunder of his power who can understand?</p>

</body>
</html>