<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long wilt thou speak these things? And how long shall the words of thy mouth be like a mighty wind? <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Doth God pervert justice? Or doth the Almighty pervert righteousness? <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If thy children have sinned against him, And he hath delivered them into the hand of their transgression; <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou wouldest seek diligently unto God, And make thy supplication to the Almighty; <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If thou wert pure and upright: Surely now he would awake for thee, And make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And though thy beginning was small, Yet thy latter end would greatly increase. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For inquire, I pray thee, of the former age, And apply thyself to that which their fathers have searched out: <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (For we are but of yesterday, and know nothing, Because our days upon earth are a shadow); <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Shall not they teach thee, and tell thee, And utter words out of their heart?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Can the rush grow up without mire? Can the flag grow without water? <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whilst it is yet in its greenness, and not cut down, It withereth before any other herb. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So are the paths of all that forget God; And the hope of the godless man shall perish: <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whose confidence shall break in sunder, And whose trust is a spider’s web. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand: He shall hold fast thereby, but it shall not endure. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He is green before the sun, And his shoots go forth over his garden. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His roots are wrapped about the stone -heap, He beholdeth the place of stones. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If he be destroyed from his place, Then it shall deny him, saying, I have not seen thee. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, this is the joy of his way; And out of the earth shall others spring. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man, Neither will he uphold the evil-doers. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He will yet fill thy mouth with laughter, And thy lips with shouting. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame; And the tent of the wicked shall be no more.</p>

</body>
</html>