<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. <a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God. <a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. <a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now Elihu had waited to speak unto Job, because they were elder than he. <a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, his wrath was kindled.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am young, and ye are very old; Wherefore I held back, and durst not show you mine opinion. <a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I said, Days should speak, And multitude of years should teach wisdom. <a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But there is a spirit in man, And the breath of the Almighty giveth them understanding. <a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is not the great that are wise, Nor the aged that understand justice. <a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will show mine opinion.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, I waited for your words, I listened for your reasonings, Whilst ye searched out what to say. <a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, I attended unto you, And, behold, there was none that convinced Job, Or that answered his words, among you. <a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Beware lest ye say, We have found wisdom; God may vanquish him, not man: <a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he hath not directed his words against me; Neither will I answer him with your speeches.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They are amazed, they answer no more: They have not a word to say. <a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And shall I wait, because they speak not, Because they stand still, and answer no more? <a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I also will answer my part, I also will show mine opinion. <a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I am full of words; The spirit within me constraineth me. <a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, my breast is as wine which hath no vent; Like new wine-skins it is ready to burst. <a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I will speak, that I may be refreshed; I will open my lips and answer. <a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let me not, I pray you, respect any man’s person; Neither will I give flattering titles unto any man. <a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I know not to give flattering titles; Else would my Maker soon take me away.</p>

</body>
</html>