<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Elihu also proceeded, and said, <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Suffer me a little, and I will show thee; For I have yet somewhat to say on God’s behalf. <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will fetch my knowledge from afar, And will ascribe righteousness to my Maker. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For truly my words are not false: One that is perfect in knowledge is with thee. <a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: He is mighty in strength of understanding. <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He preserveth not the life of the wicked, But giveth to the afflicted their right. <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: But with kings upon the throne He setteth them for ever, and they are exalted. <a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And if they be bound in fetters, And be taken in the cords of afflictions; <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then he showeth them their work, And their transgressions, that they have behaved themselves proudly. <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He openeth also their ear to instruction, And commandeth that they return from iniquity. <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they hearken and serve him, They shall spend their days in prosperity, And their years in pleasures. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if they hearken not, they shall perish by the sword, And they shall die without knowledge. <a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But they that are godless in heart lay up anger: They cry not for help when he bindeth them. <a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They die in youth, And their life perisheth among the unclean. <a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He delivereth the afflicted by their affliction, And openeth their ear in oppression. <a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yea, he would have allured thee out of distress Into a broad place, where there is no straitness; And that which is set on thy table would be full of fatness.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But thou art full of the judgment of the wicked: Judgment and justice take hold on thee. <a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For let not wrath stir thee up against chastisements; Neither let the greatness of the ransom turn thee aside. <a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Will thy cry avail, that thou be not in distress, Or all the forces of thy strength? <a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Desire not the night, When peoples are cut off in their place. <a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Take heed, regard not iniquity: For this hast thou chosen rather than affliction. <a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold, God doeth loftily in his power: Who is a teacher like unto him? <a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who hath enjoined him his way? Or who can say, Thou hast wrought unrighteousness?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Remember that thou magnify his work, Whereof men have sung. <a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All men have looked thereon; Man beholdeth it afar off. <a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Behold, God is great, and we know him not; The number of his years is unsearchable. <a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For he draweth up the drops of water, Which distil in rain from his vapor, <a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Which the skies pour down And drop upon man abundantly. <a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Yea, can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, The thunderings of his pavilion? <a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Behold, he spreadeth his light around him; And he covereth the bottom of the sea. <a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For by these he judgeth the peoples; He giveth food in abundance. <a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He covereth his hands with the lightning, And giveth it a charge that it strike the mark. <a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The noise thereof telleth concerning him, The cattle also concerning the storm that cometh up.</p>

</body>
</html>