<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Call now; is there any that will answer thee? And to which of the holy ones wilt thou turn? <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For vexation killeth the foolish man, And jealousy slayeth the silly one. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have seen the foolish taking root: But suddenly I cursed his habitation. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His children are far from safety, And they are crushed in the gate, Neither is there any to deliver them: <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, And taketh it even out of the thorns; And the snare gapeth for their substance. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For affliction cometh not forth from the dust, Neither doth trouble spring out of the ground; <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But man is born unto trouble, As the sparks fly upward.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But as for me, I would seek unto God, And unto God would I commit my cause; <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who doeth great things and unsearchable, Marvellous things without number: <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who giveth rain upon the earth, And sendeth waters upon the fields; <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So that he setteth up on high those that are low, And those that mourn are exalted to safety. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He frustrateth the devices of the crafty, So that their hands cannot perform their enterprise. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He taketh the wise in their own craftiness; And the counsel of the cunning is carried headlong. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They meet with darkness in the day-time, And grope at noonday as in the night. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But he saveth from the sword of their mouth, Even the needy from the hand of the mighty. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So the poor hath hope, And iniquity stoppeth her mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth: Therefore despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he maketh sore, and bindeth up; He woundeth, and his hands make whole. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will deliver thee in six troubles; Yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In famine he will redeem thee from death; And in war from the power of the sword. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue; Neither shalt thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At destruction and dearth thou shalt laugh; Neither shalt thou be afraid of the beasts of the earth. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field; And the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And thou shalt know that thy tent is in peace; And thou shalt visit thy fold, and shalt miss nothing. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, And thine offspring as the grass of the earth. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, Like as a shock of grain cometh in in its season. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Lo this, we have searched it, so it is; Hear it, and know thou it for thy good.</p>

</body>
</html>