<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My spirit is consumed, my days are extinct, The grave is ready for me. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Surely there are mockers with me, And mine eye dwelleth upon their provocation.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Give now a pledge, be surety for me with thyself; Who is there that will strike hands with me? <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast hid their heart from understanding: Therefore shalt thou not exalt them. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He that denounceth his friends for a prey, Even the eyes of his children shall fail.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he hath made me a byword of the people; And they spit in my face. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, And all my members are as a shadow. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Upright men shall be astonished at this, And the innocent shall stir up himself against the godless. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yet shall the righteous hold on his way, And he that hath clean hands shall wax stronger and stronger. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But as for you all, come on now again; And I shall not find a wise man among you. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days are past, my purposes are broken off, Even the thoughts of my heart. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They change the night into day: The light, say they, is near unto the darkness. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I look for Sheol as my house; If I have spread my couch in the darkness; <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I have said to corruption, Thou art my father; To the worm, Thou art my mother, and my sister; <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Where then is my hope? And as for my hope, who shall see it? <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It shall go down to the bars of Sheol, When once there is rest in the dust.</p>

</body>
</html>