<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear diligently my speech; And let this be your consolations. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Suffer me, and I also will speak; And after that I have spoken, mock on. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As for me, is my complaint to man? And why should I not be impatient? <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Mark me, and be astonished, And lay your hand upon your mouth. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Even when I remember I am troubled, And horror taketh hold on my flesh. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore do the wicked live, Become old, yea, wax mighty in power? <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their seed is established with them in their sight, And their offspring before their eyes. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Their houses are safe from fear, Neither is the rod of God upon them. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; Their cow calveth, and casteth not her calf. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They send forth their little ones like a flock, And their children dance. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They sing to the timbrel and harp, And rejoice at the sound of the pipe. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They spend their days in prosperity, And in a moment they go down to Sheol. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they say unto God, Depart from us; For we desire not the knowledge of thy ways. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? And what profit should we have, if we pray unto him? <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lo, their prosperity is not in their hand: The counsel of the wicked is far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How oft is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out? That their calamity cometh upon them? That God distributeth sorrows in his anger? <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> That they are as stubble before the wind, And as chaff that the storm carrieth away? <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Ye say, God layeth up his iniquity for his children. Let him recompense it unto himself, that he may know it: <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Let his own eyes see his destruction, And let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For what careth he for his house after him, When the number of his months is cut off? <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Shall any teach God knowledge, Seeing he judgeth those that are high? <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> One dieth in his full strength, Being wholly at ease and quiet: <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His pails are full of milk, And the marrow of his bones is moistened. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And another dieth in bitterness of soul, And never tasteth of good. <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They lie down alike in the dust, And the worm covereth them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Behold, I know your thoughts, And the devices wherewith ye would wrong me. <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For ye say, Where is the house of the prince? And where is the tent wherein the wicked dwelt? <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Have ye not asked wayfaring men? And do ye not know their evidences, <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> That the evil man is reserved to the day of calamity? That they are led forth to the day of wrath? <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Who shall declare his way to his face? And who shall repay him what he hath done? <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Yet shall he be borne to the grave, And men shall keep watch over the tomb. <a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The clods of the valley shall be sweet unto him, And all men shall draw after him, As there were innumerable before him. <a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> How then comfort ye me in vain, Seeing in your answers there remaineth only falsehood?</p>

</body>
</html>