<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Howbeit, Job, I pray thee, hear my speech, And hearken to all my words. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Behold now, I have opened my mouth; My tongue hath spoken in my mouth. <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My words shall utter the uprightness of my heart; And that which my lips know they shall speak sincerely. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Spirit of God hath made me, And the breath of the Almighty giveth me life. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou canst, answer thou me; Set thy words in order before me, stand forth. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, I am toward God even as thou art: I also am formed out of the clay. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, Neither shall my pressure be heavy upon thee. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Surely thou hast spoken in my hearing, And I have heard the voice of thy words, saying, <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I am clean, without transgression; I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me: <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, he findeth occasions against me, He counteth me for his enemy: <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He putteth my feet in the stocks, He marketh all my paths. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, I will answer thee, in this thou art not just; For God is greater than man.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Why dost thou strive against him, For that he giveth not account of any of his matters? <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For God speaketh once, Yea twice, though man regardeth it not. <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In a dream, in a vision of the night, When deep sleep falleth upon men, In slumberings upon the bed; <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then he openeth the ears of men, And sealeth their instruction, <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> That he may withdraw man from his purpose, And hide pride from man; <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He keepeth back his soul from the pit, And his life from perishing by the sword. <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, And with continual strife in his bones; <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So that his life abhorreth bread, And his soul dainty food. <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen; And his bones that were not seen stick out. <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yea, his soul draweth near unto the pit, And his life to the destroyers.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If there be with him an angel, An interpreter, one among a thousand, To show unto man what is right for him; <a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then God is gracious unto him, and saith, Deliver him from going down to the pit, I have found a ransom. <a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> His flesh shall be fresher than a child’s; He returneth to the days of his youth. <a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He prayeth unto God, and he is favorable unto him, So that he seeth his face with joy: And he restoreth unto man his righteousness. <a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He singeth before men, and saith, I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, And it profited me not: <a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He hath redeemed my soul from going into the pit, And my life shall behold the light.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Lo, all these things doth God work, Twice, yea thrice, with a man, <a id="c33_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> To bring back his soul from the pit, That he may be enlightened with the light of the living. <a id="c33_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me: Hold thy peace, and I will speak. <a id="c33_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If thou hast anything to say, answer me: Speak, for I desire to justify thee. <a id="c33_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If not, hearken thou unto me: Hold thy peace, and I will teach thee wisdom.</p>

</body>
</html>