<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Jehovah answered Job, and said, <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Shall he that cavilleth contend with the Almighty? He that argueth with God, let him answer it.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Job answered Jehovah, and said, <a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, I am of small account; What shall I answer thee? I lay my hand upon my mouth. <a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Once have I spoken, and I will not answer; Yea, twice, but I will proceed no further.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then Jehovah answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said, <a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gird up thy loins now like a man: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. <a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wilt thou even annul my judgment? Wilt thou condemn me, that thou mayest be justified? <a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Or hast thou an arm like God? And canst thou thunder with a voice like him?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Deck thyself now with excellency and dignity; And array thyself with honor and majesty. <a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Pour forth the overflowings of thine anger; And look upon every one that is proud, and abase him. <a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low; And tread down the wicked where they stand. <a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hide them in the dust together; Bind their faces in the hidden place. <a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then will I also confess of thee That thine own right hand can save thee.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold now, behemoth, which I made as well as thee; He eateth grass as an ox. <a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lo now, his strength is in his loins, And his force is in the muscles of his belly. <a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He moveth his tail like a cedar: The sinews of his thighs are knit together. <a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His bones are as tubes of brass; His limbs are like bars of iron. <a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He is the chief of the ways of God: He only that made him giveth him his sword. <a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Surely the mountains bring him forth food, Where all the beasts of the field do play. <a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He lieth under the lotus-trees, In the covert of the reed, and the fen. <a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The lotus-trees cover him with their shade; The willows of the brook compass him about. <a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Behold, if a river overflow, he trembleth not; He is confident, though a Jordan swell even to his mouth. <a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shall any take him when he is on the watch, Or pierce through his nose with a snare?</p>

</body>
</html>