<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this opened Job his mouth, and cursed his day. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Job answered and said: <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the day perish wherein I was born, And the night which said, There is a man-child conceived. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let that day be darkness; Let not God from above seek for it, Neither let the light shine upon it. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let darkness and the shadow of death claim it for their own; Let a cloud dwell upon it; Let all that maketh black the day terrify it. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As for that night, let thick darkness seize upon it: Let it not rejoice among the days of the year; Let it not come into the number of the months. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, let that night be barren; Let no joyful voice come therein. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let them curse it that curse the day, Who are ready to rouse up leviathan. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let the stars of the twilight thereof be dark: Let it look for light, but have none; Neither let it behold the eyelids of the morning: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because it shut not up the doors of my mother’s womb, Nor hid trouble from mine eyes. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why died I not from the womb? Why did I not give up the ghost when my mother bare me? <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breast, that I should suck? <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For now should I have lain down and been quiet; I should have slept; then had I been at rest, <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> With kings and counsellors of the earth, Who built up waste places for themselves; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Or with princes that had gold, Who filled their houses with silver: <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Or as a hidden untimely birth I had not been, As infants that never saw light. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There the wicked cease from troubling; And there the weary are at rest. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There the prisoners are at ease together; They hear not the voice of the taskmaster. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The small and the great are there: And the servant is free from his master. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery, And life unto the bitter in soul; <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Who long for death, but it cometh not, And dig for it more than for hid treasures; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Who rejoice exceedingly, And are glad, when they can find the grave? <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, And whom God hath hedged in? <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For my sighing cometh before I eat, And my groanings are poured out like water. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For the thing which I fear cometh upon me, And that which I am afraid of cometh unto me. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I am not at ease, neither am I quiet, neither have I rest; But trouble cometh.</p>

</body>
</html>