<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why are times not laid up by the Almighty? And why do not they that know him see his days? <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> There are that remove the landmarks; They violently take away flocks, and feed them. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They drive away the ass of the fatherless; They take the widow’s ox for a pledge. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They turn the needy out of the way: The poor of the earth all hide themselves. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, as wild asses in the desert They go forth to their work, seeking diligently for food; The wilderness yieldeth them bread for their children. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They cut their provender in the field; And they glean the vintage of the wicked. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They lie all night naked without clothing, And have no covering in the cold. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are wet with the showers of the mountains, And embrace the rock for want of a shelter. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There are that pluck the fatherless from the breast, And take a pledge of the poor; <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So that they go about naked without clothing, And being hungry they carry the sheaves. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They make oil within the walls of these men; They tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> From out of the populous city men groan, And the soul of the wounded crieth out: Yet God regardeth not the folly.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These are of them that rebel against the light; They know not the ways thereof, Nor abide in the paths thereof. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The murderer riseth with the light; He killeth the poor and needy; And in the night he is as a thief. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, Saying, No eye shall see me: And he disguiseth his face. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In the dark they dig through houses: They shut themselves up in the day-time; They know not the light. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the morning is to all of them as thick darkness; For they know the terrors of the thick darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Swiftly they pass away upon the face of the waters; Their portion is cursed in the earth: They turn not into the way of the vineyards. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Drought and heat consume the snow waters: So doth Sheol those that have sinned. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The womb shall forget him; The worm shall feed sweetly on him; He shall be no more remembered; And unrighteousness shall be broken as a tree. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He devoureth the barren that beareth not, And doeth not good to the widow. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yet God preserveth the mighty by his power: He riseth up that hath no assurance of life. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> God giveth them to be in security, and they rest thereon; And his eyes are upon their ways. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They are exalted; yet a little while, and they are gone; Yea, they are brought low, they are taken out of the way as all others, And are cut off as the tops of the ears of grain. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And if it be not so now, who will prove me a liar, And make my speech nothing worth?</p>

</body>
</html>