<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 88</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 88</h2>

<p><a id="c88_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Jehovah, the God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee. <a id="c88_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my prayer enter into thy presence; Incline thine ear unto my cry. <a id="c88_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my soul is full of troubles, And my life draweth nigh unto Sheol. <a id="c88_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I am reckoned with them that go down into the pit; I am as a man that hath no help, <a id="c88_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Cast off among the dead, Like the slain that lie in the grave, Whom thou rememberest no more, And they are cut off from thy hand. <a id="c88_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, In dark places, in the deeps. <a id="c88_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, And thou hast afflicted me with all thy waves.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast put mine acquaintance far from me; Thou hast made me an abomination unto them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth. <a id="c88_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Mine eye wasteth away by reason of affliction: I have called daily upon thee, O Jehovah; I have spread forth my hands unto thee. <a id="c88_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wilt thou show wonders to the dead? Shall they that are deceased arise and praise thee?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? Or thy faithfulness in Destruction? <a id="c88_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? And thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? <a id="c88_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But unto thee, O Jehovah, have I cried; And in the morning shall my prayer come before thee. <a id="c88_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah, why castest thou off my soul? Why hidest thou thy face from me? <a id="c88_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up: While I suffer thy terrors I am distracted. <a id="c88_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thy fierce wrath is gone over me; Thy terrors have cut me off. <a id="c88_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They came round about me like water all the day long; They compassed me about together. <a id="c88_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, And mine acquaintance into darkness.</p>

</body>
</html>