<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 58</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 58</h2>

<p><a id="c58_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Do ye indeed in silence speak righteousness? Do ye judge uprightly, O ye sons of men? <a id="c58_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Nay, in heart ye work wickedness; Ye weigh out the violence of your hands in the earth. <a id="c58_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The wicked are estranged from the womb: They go astray as soon as they are born, speaking lies. <a id="c58_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their poison is like the poison of a serpent: They are like the deaf adder that stoppeth her ear, <a id="c58_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Which hearkeneth not to the voice of charmers, Charming never so wisely. <a id="c58_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: Break out the great teeth of the young lions, O Jehovah. <a id="c58_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let them melt away as water that runneth apace: When he aimeth his arrows, let them be as though they were cut off. <a id="c58_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let them be as a snail which melteth and passeth away, Like the untimely birth of a woman, that hath not seen the sun. <a id="c58_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Before your pots can feel the thorns, He will take them away with a whirlwind, the green and the burning alike. <a id="c58_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance: He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked; <a id="c58_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So that men shall say, Verily there is a reward for the righteous: Verily there is a God that judgeth in the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>