<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 96</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 96</h2>

<p><a id="c96_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh sing unto Jehovah a new song: Sing unto Jehovah, all the earth. <a id="c96_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing unto Jehovah, bless his name; Show forth his salvation from day to day. <a id="c96_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Declare his glory among the nations, His marvellous works among all the peoples. <a id="c96_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For great is Jehovah, and greatly to be praised: He is to be feared above all gods. <a id="c96_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For all the gods of the peoples are idols; But Jehovah made the heavens. <a id="c96_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Honor and majesty are before him: Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. <a id="c96_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ascribe unto Jehovah, ye kindreds of the peoples, Ascribe unto Jehovah glory and strength. <a id="c96_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ascribe unto Jehovah the glory due unto his name: Bring an offering, and come into his courts. <a id="c96_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Oh worship Jehovah in holy array: Tremble before him, all the earth. <a id="c96_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say among the nations, Jehovah reigneth: The world also is established that it cannot be moved: He will judge the peoples with equity. <a id="c96_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; <a id="c96_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let the field exult, and all that is therein; Then shall all the trees of the wood sing for joy <a id="c96_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Before Jehovah; for he cometh, For he cometh to judge the earth: He will judge the world with righteousness, And the peoples with his truth.</p>

</body>
</html>