<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I said, I will take heed to my ways, That I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, While the wicked is before me. <a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; And my sorrow was stirred. <a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My heart was hot within me; While I was musing the fire burned: Then spake I with my tongue: <a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Jehovah, make me to know mine end, And the measure of my days, what it is; Let me know how frail I am. <a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, thou hast made my days as handbreadths; And my life-time is as nothing before thee: Surely every man at his best estate is altogether vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Surely every man walketh in a vain show; Surely they are disquieted in vain: He heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall gather them. <a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And now, Lord, what wait I for? My hope is in thee. <a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Deliver me from all my transgressions: Make me not the reproach of the foolish. <a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; Because thou didst it. <a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of thy hand. <a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, Thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: Surely every man is vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hear my prayer, O Jehovah, and give ear unto my cry; Hold not thy peace at my tears: For I am a stranger with thee, A sojourner, as all my fathers were. <a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Oh spare me, that I may recover strength, Before I go hence, and be no more.</p>

</body>
</html>