<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ear to my words, O Jehovah, Consider my meditation. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God; For unto thee do I pray. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O Jehovah, in the morning shalt thou hear my voice; In the morning will I order my prayer unto thee, and will keep watch. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: Evil shall not sojourn with thee. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The arrogant shall not stand in thy sight: Thou hatest all workers of iniquity. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou wilt destroy them that speak lies: Jehovah abhorreth the blood-thirsty and deceitful man. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But as for me, in the abundance of thy lovingkindness will I come into thy house: In thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lead me, O Jehovah, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; Make thy way straight before my face. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; Their inward part is very wickedness; Their throat is an open sepulchre; They flatter with their tongue. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hold them guilty, O God; Let them fall by their own counsels; Thrust them out in the multitude of their transgressions; For they have rebelled against thee. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But let all those that take refuge in thee rejoice, Let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: Let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For thou wilt bless the righteous; O Jehovah, thou wilt compass him with favor as with a shield.</p>

</body>
</html>