<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 55</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 55</h2>

<p><a id="c55_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ear to my prayer, O God; And hide not thyself from my supplication. <a id="c55_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Attend unto me, and answer me: I am restless in my complaint, and moan, <a id="c55_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the oppression of the wicked; For they cast iniquity upon me, And in anger they persecute me. <a id="c55_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart is sore pained within me: And the terrors of death are fallen upon me. <a id="c55_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, And horror hath overwhelmed me. <a id="c55_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! Then would I fly away, and be at rest. <a id="c55_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, then would I wander far off, I would lodge in the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I would haste me to a shelter From the stormy wind and tempest. <a id="c55_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongue; For I have seen violence and strife in the city. <a id="c55_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: Iniquity also and mischief are in the midst of it. <a id="c55_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wickedness is in the midst thereof: Oppression and guile depart not from its streets. <a id="c55_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For it was not an enemy that reproached me; Then I could have borne it: Neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me; Then I would have hid myself from him: <a id="c55_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But it was thou, a man mine equal, My companion, and my familiar friend. <a id="c55_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> We took sweet counsel together; We walked in the house of God with the throng. <a id="c55_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let death come suddenly upon them, Let them go down alive into Sheol; For wickedness is in their dwelling, in the midst of them. <a id="c55_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> As for me, I will call upon God; And Jehovah will save me. <a id="c55_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Evening, and morning, and at noonday, will I complain, and moan; And he will hear my voice. <a id="c55_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He hath redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me; For they were many that strove with me. <a id="c55_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God will hear, and answer them, Even he that abideth of old,</p>

<p>The men who have no changes, And who fear not God. <a id="c55_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He hath put forth his hands against such as were at peace with him: He hath profaned his covenant. <a id="c55_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His mouth was smooth as butter, But his heart was war: His words were softer than oil, Yet were they drawn swords. <a id="c55_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Cast thy burden upon Jehovah, and he will sustain thee: He will never suffer the righteous to be moved. <a id="c55_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But thou, O God, wilt bring them down into the pit of destruction: Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; But I will trust in thee.</p>

</body>
</html>