<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I love thee, O Jehovah, my strength. <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; My God, my rock, in whom I will take refuge; My shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will call upon Jehovah, who is worthy to be praised: So shall I be saved from mine enemies. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The cords of death compassed me, And the floods of ungodliness made me afraid. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The cords of Sheol were round about me; The snares of death came upon me. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In my distress I called upon Jehovah, And cried unto my God: He heard my voice out of his temple, And my cry before him came into his ears. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then the earth shook and trembled; The foundations also of the mountains quaked And were shaken, because he was wroth. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, And fire out of his mouth devoured: Coals were kindled by it. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He bowed the heavens also, and came down; And thick darkness was under his feet. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly; Yea, he soared upon the wings of the wind. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He made darkness his hiding-place, his pavilion round about him, Darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> At the brightness before him his thick clouds passed, Hailstones and coals of fire. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jehovah also thundered in the heavens, And the Most High uttered his voice, Hailstones and coals of fire. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; Yea, lightnings manifold, and discomfited them. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the channels of waters appeared, And the foundations of the world were laid bare, At thy rebuke, O Jehovah, At the blast of the breath of thy nostrils. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He sent from on high, he took me; He drew me out of many waters. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He delivered me from my strong enemy, And from them that hated me; for they were too mighty for me. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They came upon me in the day of my calamity; But Jehovah was my stay. <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He brought me forth also into a large place; He delivered me, because he delighted in me. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Jehovah hath rewarded me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, And have not wickedly departed from my God. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For all his ordinances were before me, And I put not away his statutes from me. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I was also perfect with him, And I kept myself from mine iniquity. <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore hath Jehovah recompensed me according to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight. <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> With the merciful thou wilt show thyself merciful; With the perfect man thou wilt show thyself perfect; <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> With the pure thou wilt show thyself pure; And with the perverse thou wilt show thyself froward. <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For thou wilt save the afflicted people; But the haughty eyes thou wilt bring down. <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For thou wilt light my lamp: Jehovah my God will lighten my darkness. <a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For by thee I run upon a troop; And by my God do I leap over a wall. <a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> As for God, his way is perfect: The word of Jehovah is tried; He is a shield unto all them that take refuge in him. <a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For who is God, save Jehovah? And who is a rock, besides our God, <a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The God that girdeth me with strength, And maketh my way perfect? <a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He maketh my feet like hinds’ feet: And setteth me upon my high places. <a id="c18_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He teacheth my hands to war; So that mine arms do bend a bow of brass. <a id="c18_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation; And thy right hand hath holden me up, And thy gentleness hath made me great. <a id="c18_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, And my feet have not slipped. <a id="c18_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I will pursue mine enemies, and overtake them; Neither will I turn again till they are consumed. <a id="c18_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I will smite them through, so that they shall not be able to rise: They shall fall under my feet. <a id="c18_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: Thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me. <a id="c18_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Thou hast also made mine enemies turn their backs unto me, That I might cut off them that hate me. <a id="c18_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> They cried, but there was none to save; Even unto Jehovah, but he answered them not. <a id="c18_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind; I did cast them out as the mire of the streets. <a id="c18_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; Thou hast made me the head of the nations: A people whom I have not known shall serve me. <a id="c18_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> As soon as they hear of me they shall obey me; The foreigners shall submit themselves unto me. <a id="c18_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The foreigners shall fade away, And shall come trembling out of their close places. <a id="c18_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Jehovah liveth; and blessed be my rock; And exalted be the God of my salvation, <a id="c18_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Even the God that executeth vengeance for me, And subdueth peoples under me. <a id="c18_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> He rescueth me from mine enemies; Yea, thou liftest me up above them that rise up against me; Thou deliverest me from the violent man. <a id="c18_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Therefore I will give thanks unto thee, O Jehovah, among the nations, And will sing praises unto thy name. <a id="c18_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Great deliverance giveth he to his king, And showeth lovingkindness to his anointed, To David and to his seed, for evermore.</p>

</body>
</html>