<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will give thanks unto Jehovah with my whole heart; I will show forth all thy marvellous works. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will be glad and exult in thee; I will sing praise to thy name, O thou Most High. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When mine enemies turn back, They stumble and perish at thy presence. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; Thou sittest in the throne judging righteously. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast rebuked the nations, thou hast destroyed the wicked; Thou hast blotted out their name for ever and ever. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The enemy are come to an end, they are desolate for ever; And the cities which thou hast overthrown, The very remembrance of them is perished. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But Jehovah sitteth as king for ever: He hath prepared his throne for judgment; <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he will judge the world in righteousness, He will minister judgment to the peoples in uprightness. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jehovah also will be a high tower for the oppressed, A high tower in times of trouble; <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee; For thou, Jehovah, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sing praises to Jehovah, who dwelleth in Zion: Declare among the people his doings. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For he that maketh inquisition for blood remembereth them; He forgetteth not the cry of the poor. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah; Behold my affliction which I suffer of them that hate me, Thou that liftest me up from the gates of death; <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> That I may show forth all thy praise. In the gates of the daughter of Zion I will rejoice in thy salvation. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The nations are sunk down in the pit that they made: In the net which they hid is their own foot taken. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jehovah hath made himself known, he hath executed judgment: The wicked is snared in the work of his own hands.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The wicked shall be turned back unto Sheol, Even all the nations that forget God. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the needy shall not alway be forgotten, Nor the expectation of the poor perish for ever. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Arise, O Jehovah; let not man prevail: Let the nations be judged in thy sight. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Put them in fear, O Jehovah: Let the nations know themselves to be but men.</p>

</body>
</html>