<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 103</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 103</h2>

<p><a id="c103_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bless Jehovah, O my soul; And all that is within me, bless his holy name. <a id="c103_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bless Jehovah, O my soul, And forget not all his benefits: <a id="c103_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; Who healeth all thy diseases; <a id="c103_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; Who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies; <a id="c103_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who satisfieth thy desire with good things, So that thy youth is renewed like the eagle. <a id="c103_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah executeth righteous acts, And judgments for all that are oppressed. <a id="c103_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He made known his ways unto Moses, His doings unto the children of Israel. <a id="c103_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah is merciful and gracious, Slow to anger, and abundant in lovingkindness. <a id="c103_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He will not always chide; Neither will he keep his anger for ever. <a id="c103_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He hath not dealt with us after our sins, Nor rewarded us after our iniquities. <a id="c103_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For as the heavens are high above the earth, So great is his lovingkindness toward them that fear him. <a id="c103_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As far as the east is from the west, So far hath he removed our transgressions from us. <a id="c103_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Like as a father pitieth his children, So Jehovah pitieth them that fear him. <a id="c103_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he knoweth our frame; He remembereth that we are dust. <a id="c103_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As for man, his days are as grass; As a flower of the field, so he flourisheth. <a id="c103_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; And the place thereof shall know it no more. <a id="c103_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the lovingkindness of Jehovah is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, And his righteousness unto children’s children; <a id="c103_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To such as keep his covenant, And to those that remember his precepts to do them. <a id="c103_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jehovah hath established his throne in the heavens; And his kingdom ruleth over all. <a id="c103_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Bless Jehovah, ye his angels, That are mighty in strength, that fulfil his word, Hearkening unto the voice of his word. <a id="c103_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bless Jehovah, all ye his hosts, Ye ministers of his, that do his pleasure. <a id="c103_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Bless Jehovah, all ye his works, In all places of his dominion: Bless Jehovah, O my soul.</p>

</body>
</html>