<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 68</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 68</h2>

<p><a id="c68_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered; Let them also that hate him flee before him. <a id="c68_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: As wax melteth before the fire, So let the wicked perish at the presence of God. <a id="c68_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But let the righteous be glad; let them exult before God: Yea, let them rejoice with gladness. <a id="c68_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: Cast up a highway for him that rideth through the deserts; His name is Jehovah; and exult ye before him. <a id="c68_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, Is God in his holy habitation. <a id="c68_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God setteth the solitary in families: He bringeth out the prisoners into prosperity; But the rebellious dwell in a parched land.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, When thou didst march through the wilderness;</p>

<p><a id="c68_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The earth trembled, The heavens also dropped rain at the presence of God: Yon Sinai trembled at the presence of God, the God of Israel. <a id="c68_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, Thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary. <a id="c68_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy congregation dwelt therein: Thou, O God, didst prepare of thy goodness for the poor. <a id="c68_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Lord giveth the word: The women that publish the tidings are a great host. <a id="c68_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Kings of armies flee, they flee; And she that tarrieth at home divideth the spoil. <a id="c68_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When ye lie among the sheepfolds, It is as the wings of a dove covered with silver, And her pinions with yellow gold. <a id="c68_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When the Almighty scattered kings therein, It was as when it snoweth in Zalmon. <a id="c68_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan; A high mountain is the mountain of Bashan. <a id="c68_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Why look ye askance, ye high mountains, At the mountain which God hath desired for his abode? Yea, Jehovah will dwell in it for ever. <a id="c68_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands upon thousands; The Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the sanctuary. <a id="c68_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led away captives; Thou hast received gifts among men, Yea, among the rebellious also, that Jehovah God might dwell with them.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Blessed be the Lord, who daily beareth our burden, Even the God who is our salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> God is unto us a God of deliverances; And unto Jehovah the Lord belongeth escape from death. <a id="c68_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But God will smite through the head of his enemies, The hairy scalp of such a one as goeth on still in his guiltiness. <a id="c68_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring them again from the depths of the sea; <a id="c68_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> That thou mayest crush them, dipping thy foot in blood, That the tongue of thy dogs may have its portion from thine enemies. <a id="c68_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They have seen thy goings, O God, Even the goings of my God, my King, into the sanctuary. <a id="c68_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The singers went before, the minstrels followed after, In the midst of the damsels playing with timbrels. <a id="c68_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Bless ye God in the congregations, Even the Lord, ye that are of the fountain of Israel. <a id="c68_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> There is little Benjamin their ruler, The princes of Judah and their council, The princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thy God hath commanded thy strength: Strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us. <a id="c68_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Because of thy temple at Jerusalem Kings shall bring presents unto thee. <a id="c68_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Rebuke the wild beast of the reeds, The multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples, Trampling under foot the pieces of silver: He hath scattered the peoples that delight in war. <a id="c68_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall haste to stretch out her hands unto God. <a id="c68_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; Oh sing praises unto the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c68_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> To him that rideth upon the heaven of heavens, which are of old; Lo, he uttereth his voice, a mighty voice. <a id="c68_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Ascribe ye strength unto God: His excellency is over Israel, And his strength is in the skies. <a id="c68_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places: The God of Israel, he giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed be God.</p>

</body>
</html>