<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 57</h2>

<p><a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me; For my soul taketh refuge in thee: Yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I take refuge, Until these calamities be overpast. <a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will cry unto God Most High, Unto God that performeth all things for me. <a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He will send from heaven, and save me, When he that would swallow me up reproacheth;</p>

<p>God will send forth his lovingkindness and his truth. <a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My soul is among lions; I lie among them that are set on fire, Even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, And their tongue a sharp sword. <a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; Let thy glory be above all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They have prepared a net for my steps; My soul is bowed down: They have digged a pit before me; They are fallen into the midst thereof themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing, yea, I will sing praises. <a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake right early. <a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will give thanks unto thee, O Lord, among the peoples: I will sing praises unto thee among the nations. <a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thy lovingkindness is great unto the heavens, And thy truth unto the skies. <a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; Let thy glory be above all the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>