<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 80</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 80</h2>

<p><a id="c80_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, Thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; Thou that sittest above the cherubim, shine forth. <a id="c80_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up thy might, And come to save us. <a id="c80_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Turn us again, O God; And cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> O Jehovah God of hosts, How long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? <a id="c80_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast fed them with the bread of tears, And given them tears to drink in large measure. <a id="c80_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbors; And our enemies laugh among themselves. <a id="c80_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Turn us again, O God of hosts; And cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou broughtest a vine out of Egypt: Thou didst drive out the nations, and plantedst it. <a id="c80_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou preparedst room before it, And it took deep root, and filled the land. <a id="c80_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The mountains were covered with the shadow of it, And the boughs thereof were like cedars of God. <a id="c80_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> It sent out its branches unto the sea, And its shoots unto the River. <a id="c80_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why hast thou broken down its walls, So that all they that pass by the way do pluck it? <a id="c80_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The boar out of the wood doth ravage it, And the wild beasts of the field feed on it. <a id="c80_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Turn again, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: Look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine, <a id="c80_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the stock which thy right hand planted, And the branch that thou madest strong for thyself. <a id="c80_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It is burned with fire, it is cut down: They perish at the rebuke of thy countenance. <a id="c80_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, Upon the son of man whom thou madest strong for thyself. <a id="c80_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So shall we not go back from thee: Quicken thou us, and we will call upon thy name. <a id="c80_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Turn us again, O Jehovah God of hosts; Cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved.</p>

</body>
</html>