<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will bless Jehovah at all times: His praise shall continually be in my mouth. <a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul shall make her boast in Jehovah: The meek shall hear thereof, and be glad. <a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Oh magnify Jehovah with me, And let us exalt his name together. <a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I sought Jehovah, and he answered me, And delivered me from all my fears. <a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They looked unto him, and were radiant; And their faces shall never be confounded. <a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This poor man cried, and Jehovah heard him, And saved him out of all his troubles. <a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The angel of Jehovah encampeth round about them that fear him, And delivereth them. <a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Oh taste and see that Jehovah is good: Blessed is the man that taketh refuge in him. <a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Oh fear Jehovah, ye his saints; For there is no want to them that fear him. <a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger; But they that seek Jehovah shall not want any good thing. <a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Come, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of Jehovah. <a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What man is he that desireth life, And loveth many days, that he may see good? <a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Keep thy tongue from evil, And thy lips from speaking guile. <a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Depart from evil, and do good; Seek peace, and pursue it. <a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eyes of Jehovah are toward the righteous, And his ears are open unto their cry. <a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The face of Jehovah is against them that do evil, To cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. <a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The righteous cried, and Jehovah heard, And delivered them out of all their troubles. <a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jehovah is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart, And saveth such as are of a contrite spirit. <a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Many are the afflictions of the righteous; But Jehovah delivereth him out of them all. <a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He keepeth all his bones: Not one of them is broken. <a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Evil shall slay the wicked; And they that hate the righteous shall be condemned. <a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Jehovah redeemeth the soul of his servants; And none of them that take refuge in him shall be condemned.</p>

</body>
</html>