<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 59</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 59</h2>

<p><a id="c59_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: Set me on high from them that rise up against me. <a id="c59_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, And save me from the bloodthirsty men. <a id="c59_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul; The mighty gather themselves together against me: Not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O Jehovah. <a id="c59_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They run and prepare themselves without my fault: Awake thou to help me, and behold. <a id="c59_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Even thou, O Jehovah God of hosts, the God of Israel, Arise to visit all the nations: Be not merciful to any wicked transgressors.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They return at evening, they howl like a dog, And go round about the city. <a id="c59_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, they belch out with their mouth; Swords are in their lips: For who, say they, doth hear? <a id="c59_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But thou, O Jehovah, wilt laugh at them; Thou wilt have all the nations in derision. <a id="c59_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because of his strength I will give heed unto thee; For God is my high tower. <a id="c59_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My God with his lovingkindness will meet me: God will let me see my desire upon mine enemies. <a id="c59_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Slay them not, lest my people forget: Scatter them by thy power, and bring them down, O Lord our shield. <a id="c59_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the sin of their mouth, and the words of their lips, Let them even be taken in their pride, And for cursing and lying which they speak. <a id="c59_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Consume them in wrath, consume them, so that they shall be no more: And let them know that God ruleth in Jacob, Unto the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And at evening let them return, let them howl like a dog, And go round about the city. <a id="c59_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They shall wander up and down for food, And tarry all night if they be not satisfied. <a id="c59_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But I will sing of thy strength; Yea, I will sing aloud of thy lovingkindness in the morning: For thou hast been my high tower, And a refuge in the day of my distress. <a id="c59_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing praises: For God is my high tower, the God of my mercy.</p>

</body>
</html>