<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto thee, O Jehovah, do I lift up my soul. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O my God, in thee have I trusted, Let me not be put to shame; Let not mine enemies triumph over me. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yea, none that wait for thee shall be put to shame: They shall be put to shame that deal treacherously without cause. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Show me thy ways, O Jehovah; Teach me thy paths. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Guide me in thy truth, and teach me; For thou art the God of my salvation; For thee do I wait all the day. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Remember, O Jehovah, thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindness; For they have been ever of old. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions: According to thy lovingkindness remember thou me, For thy goodness’ sake, O Jehovah. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Good and upright is Jehovah: Therefore will he instruct sinners in the way. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The meek will he guide in justice; And the meek will he teach his way. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All the paths of Jehovah are lovingkindness and truth Unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For thy name’s sake, O Jehovah, Pardon mine iniquity, for it is great. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What man is he that feareth Jehovah? Him shall he instruct in the way that he shall choose. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His soul shall dwell at ease; And his seed shall inherit the land. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The friendship of Jehovah is with them that fear him; And he will show them his covenant. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Mine eyes are ever toward Jehovah; For he will pluck my feet out of the net. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; For I am desolate and afflicted. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The troubles of my heart are enlarged: Oh bring thou me out of my distresses. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Consider mine affliction and my travail; And forgive all my sins. <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Consider mine enemies, for they are many; And they hate me with cruel hatred. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Oh keep my soul, and deliver me: Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in thee. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, For I wait for thee. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Redeem Israel, O God, Out all of his troubles.</p>

</body>
</html>