<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Rejoice in Jehovah, O ye righteous: Praise is comely for the upright. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Give thanks unto Jehovah with the harp: Sing praises unto him with the psaltery of ten strings. <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sing unto him a new song; Play skilfully with a loud noise. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the word of Jehovah is right; And all his work is done in faithfulness. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He loveth righteousness and justice: The earth is full of the lovingkindness of Jehovah. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By the word of Jehovah were the heavens made, And all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He gathereth the waters of the sea together as a heap: He layeth up the deeps in store-houses. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let all the earth fear Jehovah: Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he spake, and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast. <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jehovah bringeth the counsel of the nations to nought; He maketh the thoughts of the peoples to be of no effect. <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The counsel of Jehovah standeth fast for ever, The thoughts of his heart to all generations. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the nation whose God is Jehovah, The people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. <a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jehovah looketh from heaven; He beholdeth all the sons of men; <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From the place of his habitation he looketh forth Upon all the inhabitants of the earth, <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He that fashioneth the hearts of them all, That considereth all their works. <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There is no king saved by the multitude of a host: A mighty man is not delivered by great strength. <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A horse is a vain thing for safety; Neither doth he deliver any by his great power. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, the eye of Jehovah is upon them that fear him, Upon them that hope in his lovingkindness; <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> To deliver their soul from death, And to keep them alive in famine. <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Our soul hath waited for Jehovah: He is our help and our shield. <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For our heart shall rejoice in him, Because we have trusted in his holy name. <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let thy lovingkindness, O Jehovah, be upon us, According as we have hoped in thee.</p>

</body>
</html>