<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 46</h2>

<p><a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God is our refuge and strength, A very present help in trouble. <a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore will we not fear, though the earth do change, And though the mountains be shaken into the heart of the seas; <a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, Though the mountains tremble with the swelling thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> There is a river, the streams whereof make glad the city of God, The holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High. <a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God will help her, and that right early.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The nations raged, the kingdoms were moved: He uttered his voice, the earth melted. <a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Come, behold the works of Jehovah, What desolations he hath made in the earth. <a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; He breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; He burneth the chariots in the fire. <a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Be still, and know that I am God: I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth. <a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our refuge.</p>

</body>
</html>