<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 51</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 51</h2>

<p><a id="c51_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: According to the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions. <a id="c51_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, And cleanse me from my sin. <a id="c51_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I know my transgressions; And my sin is ever before me. <a id="c51_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, And done that which is evil in thy sight; That thou mayest be justified when thou speakest, And be clear when thou judgest. <a id="c51_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity; And in sin did my mother conceive me. <a id="c51_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts; And in the hidden part thou wilt make me to know wisdom. <a id="c51_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Purify me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. <a id="c51_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Make me to hear joy and gladness, That the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. <a id="c51_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hide thy face from my sins, And blot out all mine iniquities. <a id="c51_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Create in me a clean heart, O God; And renew a right spirit within me. <a id="c51_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Cast me not away from thy presence; And take not thy holy Spirit from me. <a id="c51_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; And uphold me with a willing spirit. <a id="c51_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then will I teach transgressors thy ways; And sinners shall be converted unto thee. <a id="c51_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation; And my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. <a id="c51_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> O Lord, open thou my lips; And my mouth shall show forth thy praise. <a id="c51_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For thou delightest not in sacrifice; else would I give it: Thou hast no pleasure in burnt-offering. <a id="c51_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: A broken and contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: Build thou the walls of Jerusalem. <a id="c51_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then will thou delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, In burnt-offering and in whole burnt-offering: Then will they offer bullocks upon thine altar.</p>

</body>
</html>