<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 108</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 108</h2>

<p><a id="c108_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My heart is fixed, O God; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises, even with my glory. <a id="c108_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake right early. <a id="c108_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will give thanks unto thee, O Jehovah, among the peoples; And I will sing praises unto thee among the nations. <a id="c108_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thy lovingkindness is great above the heavens; And thy truth reacheth unto the skies. <a id="c108_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens, And thy glory above all the earth. <a id="c108_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That thy beloved may be delivered, Save with thy right hand, and answer us. <a id="c108_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> God hath spoken in his holiness: I will exult; I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth. <a id="c108_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the defence of my head; Judah is my sceptre. <a id="c108_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Moab is my washpot; Upon Edom will I cast my shoe; Over Philistia will I shout. <a id="c108_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who hath led me unto Edom? <a id="c108_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Hast not thou cast us off, O God? And thou goest not forth, O God, with our hosts. <a id="c108_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Give us help against the adversary; For vain is the help of man. <a id="c108_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Through God we shall do valiantly: For he it is that will tread down our adversaries.</p>

</body>
</html>