<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear this, all ye peoples; Give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world, <a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Both low and high, Rich and poor together. <a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My mouth shall speak wisdom; And the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding. <a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying upon the harp. <a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, When iniquity at my heels compasseth me about? <a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They that trust in their wealth, And boast themselves in the multitude of their riches; <a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> None of them can by any means redeem his brother, Nor give to God a ransom for him; <a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> (For the redemption of their life is costly, And it faileth for ever;) <a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That he should still live alway, That he should not see corruption. <a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he shall see it. Wise men die; The fool and the brutish alike perish, And leave their wealth to others. <a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for ever, And their dwelling-places to all generations; They call their lands after their own names. <a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But man being in honor abideth not: He is like the beasts that perish.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This their way is their folly: Yet after them men approve their sayings.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They are appointed as a flock for Sheol; Death shall be their shepherd; And the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; And their beauty shall be for Sheol to consume, That there be no habitation for it. <a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol; For he will receive me.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, When the glory of his house is increased. <a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away; His glory shall not descend after him. <a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Though while he lived he blessed his soul (And men praise thee, when thou doest well to thyself,) <a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall go to the generation of his fathers; They shall never see the light. <a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Man that is in honor, and understandeth not, Is like the beasts that perish.</p>

</body>
</html>