<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will extol thee, O Jehovah; for thou hast raised me up, And hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Jehovah my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O Jehovah, thou hast brought up my soul from Sheol; Thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sing praise unto Jehovah, O ye saints of his, And give thanks to his holy memorial name. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For his anger is but for a moment; His favor is for a life-time: Weeping may tarry for the night, But joy cometh in the morning. <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As for me, I said in my prosperity, I shall never be moved. <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou, Jehovah, of thy favor hadst made my mountain to stand strong: Thou didst hide thy face; I was troubled. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I cried to thee, O Jehovah; And unto Jehovah I made supplication: <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth? <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear, O Jehovah, and have mercy upon me: Jehovah, be thou my helper. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing; Thou hast loosed my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness; <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be silent. O Jehovah my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.</p>

</body>
</html>