<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 90</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 90</h2>

<p><a id="c90_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place In all generations. <a id="c90_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before the mountains were brought forth, Or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God. <a id="c90_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou turnest man to destruction, And sayest, Return, ye children of men. <a id="c90_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For a thousand years in thy sight Are but as yesterday when it is past, And as a watch in the night. <a id="c90_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: In the morning they are like grass which groweth up. <a id="c90_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; In the evening it is cut down, and withereth. <a id="c90_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For we are consumed in thine anger, And in thy wrath are we troubled. <a id="c90_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, Our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. <a id="c90_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: We bring our years to an end as a sigh. <a id="c90_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The days of our years are threescore years and ten, Or even by reason of strength fourscore years; Yet is their pride but labor and sorrow; For it is soon gone, and we fly away. <a id="c90_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who knoweth the power of thine anger, And thy wrath according to the fear that is due unto thee? <a id="c90_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So teach us to number our days, That we may get us a heart of wisdom. <a id="c90_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Return, O Jehovah; how long? And let it repent thee concerning thy servants. <a id="c90_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Oh satisfy us in the morning with thy lovingkindness, That we may rejoice and be glad all our days. <a id="c90_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, And the years wherein we have seen evil. <a id="c90_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let thy work appear unto thy servants, And thy glory upon their children. <a id="c90_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us; And establish thou the work of our hands upon us; Yea, the work of our hands establish thou it.</p>

</body>
</html>