<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why standest thou afar off, O Jehovah? Why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble? <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the pride of the wicked the poor is hotly pursued; Let them be taken in the devices that they have conceived. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the wicked boasteth of his heart’s desire, And the covetous renounceth, yea, contemneth Jehovah. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The wicked, in the pride of his countenance, saith, He will not require it. All his thoughts are, There is no God. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His ways are firm at all times; Thy judgments are far above out of his sight: As for all his adversaries, he puffeth at them. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He saith in his heart, I shall not be moved; To all generations I shall not be in adversity. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression: Under his tongue is mischief and iniquity. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He sitteth in the lurking-places of the villages; In the secret places doth he murder the innocent; His eyes are privily set against the helpless. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He lurketh in secret as a lion in his covert; He lieth in wait to catch the poor: He doth catch the poor, when he draweth him in his net. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He croucheth, he boweth down, And the helpless fall by his strong ones. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He saith in his heart, God hath forgotten; He hideth his face; he will never see it. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Arise, O Jehovah; O God, lift up thy hand: Forget not the poor. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God, And say in his heart, Thou wilt not require it? <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite it with thy hand: The helpless committeth himself unto thee; Thou hast been the helper of the fatherless. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Break thou the arm of the wicked; And as for the evil man, seek out his wickedness till thou find none. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jehovah is King for ever and ever: The nations are perished out of his land. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jehovah, thou hast heard the desire of the meek: Thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear; <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, That man who is of the earth may be terrible no more.</p>

</body>
</html>