<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear the right, O Jehovah, attend unto my cry; Give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; Let thine eyes look upon equity. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast proved my heart; thou hast visited me in the night; Thou hast tried me, and findest nothing; I am purposed that my mouth shall not transgress. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As for the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept me from the ways of the violent. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My steps have held fast to thy paths, My feet have not slipped. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have called upon thee, for thou wilt answer me, O God: Incline thine ear unto me, and hear my speech. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Show thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy right hand them that take refuge in thee From those that rise up against them. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Keep me as the apple of the eye; Hide me under the shadow of thy wings, <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the wicked that oppress me, My deadly enemies, that compass me about. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They are inclosed in their own fat: With their mouth they speak proudly. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They have now compassed us in our steps; They set their eyes to cast us down to the earth. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He is like a lion that is greedy of his prey, And as it were a young lion lurking in secret places. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Arise, O Jehovah, Confront him, cast him down: Deliver my soul from the wicked by thy sword; <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From men by thy hand, O Jehovah, From men of the world, whose portion is in this life, And whose belly thou fillest with thy treasure: They are satisfied with children, And leave the rest of their substance to their babes. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As for me, I shall behold thy face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with beholding thy form.</p>

</body>
</html>