<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 143</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 143</h2>

<p><a id="c143_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear my prayer, O Jehovah; give ear to my supplications: In thy faithfulness answer me, and in thy righteousness. <a id="c143_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And enter not into judgment with thy servant; For in thy sight no man living is righteous. <a id="c143_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; He hath smitten my life down to the ground: He hath made me to dwell in dark places, as those that have been long dead. <a id="c143_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; My heart within me is desolate. <a id="c143_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I remember the days of old; I meditate on all thy doings; I muse on the work of thy hands. <a id="c143_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I spread forth my hands unto thee: My soul thirsteth after thee, as a weary land.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Make haste to answer me, O Jehovah; my spirit faileth: Hide not thy face from me, Lest I become like them that go down into the pit. <a id="c143_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cause me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; For in thee do I trust: Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; For I lift up my soul unto thee. <a id="c143_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Deliver me, O Jehovah, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide me. <a id="c143_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Teach me to do thy will; For thou art my God: Thy Spirit is good; Lead me in the land of uprightness. <a id="c143_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Quicken me, O Jehovah, for thy name’s sake: In thy righteousness bring my soul out of trouble. <a id="c143_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And in thy lovingkindness cut off mine enemies, And destroy all them that afflict my soul; For I am thy servant.</p>

</body>
</html>