<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 118</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 118</h2>

<p><a id="c118_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness endureth for ever. <a id="c118_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let Israel now say, That his lovingkindness endureth for ever. <a id="c118_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the house of Aaron now say, That his lovingkindness endureth for ever. <a id="c118_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let them now that fear Jehovah say, That his lovingkindness endureth for ever. <a id="c118_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Out of my distress I called upon Jehovah: Jehovah answered me and set me in a large place. <a id="c118_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah is on my side; I will not fear: What can man do unto me? <a id="c118_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah is on my side among them that help me: Therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me. <a id="c118_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It is better to take refuge in Jehovah Than to put confidence in man. <a id="c118_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is better to take refuge in Jehovah Than to put confidence in princes. <a id="c118_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All nations compassed me about: In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off. <a id="c118_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off. <a id="c118_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They compassed me about like bees; They are quenched as the fire of thorns: In the name of Jehovah I will cut them off. <a id="c118_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou didst thrust sore at me that I might fall; But Jehovah helped me. <a id="c118_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah is my strength and song; And he is become my salvation. <a id="c118_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous: The right hand of Jehovah doeth valiantly. <a id="c118_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The right hand of Jehovah is exalted: The right hand of Jehovah doeth valiantly. <a id="c118_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I shall not die, but live, And declare the works of Jehovah. <a id="c118_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jehovah hath chastened me sore; But he hath not given me over unto death. <a id="c118_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will enter into them, I will give thanks unto Jehovah. <a id="c118_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This is the gate of Jehovah; The righteous shall enter into it. <a id="c118_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I will give thanks unto thee; for thou hast answered me, And art become my salvation. <a id="c118_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The stone which the builders rejected Is become the head of the corner. <a id="c118_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This is Jehovah’s doing; It is marvellous in our eyes. <a id="c118_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> This is the day which Jehovah hath made; We will rejoice and be glad in it. <a id="c118_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Save now, we beseech thee, O Jehovah: O Jehovah, we beseech thee, send now prosperity. <a id="c118_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Blessed be he that cometh in the name of Jehovah: We have blessed you out of the house of Jehovah. <a id="c118_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Jehovah is God, and he hath given us light: Bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar. <a id="c118_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou art my God, and I will give thanks unto thee: Thou art my God, I will exalt thee. <a id="c118_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness endureth for ever.</p>

</body>
</html>