<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament showeth his handiwork. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Day unto day uttereth speech, And night unto night showeth knowledge. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> There is no speech nor language; Their voice is not heard. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their line is gone out through all the earth, And their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun, <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, And rejoiceth as a strong man to run his course. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His going forth is from the end of the heavens, And his circuit unto the ends of it; And there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The law of Jehovah is perfect, restoring the soul: The testimony of Jehovah is sure, making wise the simple. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The precepts of Jehovah are right, rejoicing the heart: The commandment of Jehovah is pure, enlightening the eyes. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The fear of Jehovah is clean, enduring for ever: The ordinances of Jehovah are true, and righteous altogether. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold; Sweeter also than honey and the droppings of the honeycomb. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Moreover by them is thy servant warned: In keeping them there is great reward. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who can discern his errors? Clear thou me from hidden faults. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; Let them not have dominion over me: Then shall I be upright, And I shall be clear from great transgression. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in thy sight, O Jehovah, my rock, and my redeemer.</p>

</body>
</html>