<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 119</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 119</h2>

<p><a id="c119_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed are they that are perfect in the way, Who walk in the law of Jehovah. <a id="c119_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, That seek him with the whole heart. <a id="c119_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yea, they do no unrighteousness; They walk in his ways. <a id="c119_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou hast commanded us thy precepts, That we should observe them diligently. <a id="c119_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Oh that my ways were established To observe thy statutes! <a id="c119_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then shall I not be put to shame, When I have respect unto all thy commandments. <a id="c119_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will give thanks unto thee with uprightness of heart, When I learn thy righteous judgments. <a id="c119_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will observe thy statutes: Oh forsake me not utterly.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Wherewith shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. <a id="c119_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With my whole heart have I sought thee: Oh let me not wander from thy commandments. <a id="c119_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thy word have I laid up in my heart, That I might not sin against thee. <a id="c119_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed art thou, O Jehovah: Teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With my lips have I declared All the ordinances of thy mouth. <a id="c119_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, As much as in all riches. <a id="c119_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will meditate on thy precepts, And have respect unto thy ways. <a id="c119_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will delight myself in thy statutes: I will not forget thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live; So will I observe thy word. <a id="c119_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold Wondrous things out of thy law. <a id="c119_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I am a sojourner in the earth: Hide not thy commandments from me. <a id="c119_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My soul breaketh for the longing That it hath unto thine ordinances at all times. <a id="c119_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, That do wander from thy commandments. <a id="c119_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Take away from me reproach and contempt; For I have kept thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Princes also sat and talked against me; But thy servant did meditate on thy statutes. <a id="c119_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thy testimonies also are my delight And my counsellors.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> My soul cleaveth unto the dust: Quicken thou me according to thy word. <a id="c119_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I declared my ways, and thou answeredst me: Teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: So shall I meditate on thy wondrous works. <a id="c119_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My soul melteth for heaviness: Strengthen thou me according unto thy word. <a id="c119_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Remove from me the way of falsehood; And grant me thy law graciously. <a id="c119_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I have chosen the way of faithfulness: Thine ordinances have I set before me. <a id="c119_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> I cleave unto thy testimonies: O Jehovah, put me not to shame. <a id="c119_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I will run the way of thy commandments, When thou shalt enlarge my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Teach me, O Jehovah, the way of thy statutes; And I shall keep it unto the end. <a id="c119_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; Yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart. <a id="c119_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; For therein do I delight. <a id="c119_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, And not to covetousness. <a id="c119_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity, And quicken me in thy ways. <a id="c119_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Confirm unto thy servant thy word, Which is in order unto the fear of thee. <a id="c119_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Turn away my reproach whereof I am afraid; For thine ordinances are good. <a id="c119_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: Quicken me in thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Let thy lovingkindnesses also come unto me, O Jehovah, Even thy salvation, according to thy word. <a id="c119_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> So shall I have an answer for him that reproacheth me; For I trust in thy word. <a id="c119_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; For I have hoped in thine ordinances. <a id="c119_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> So shall I observe thy law continually For ever and ever. <a id="c119_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And I shall walk at liberty; For I have sought thy precepts. <a id="c119_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> I will also speak of thy testimonies before kings, And shall not be put to shame. <a id="c119_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And I will delight myself in thy commandments, Which I have loved. <a id="c119_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> I will lift up my hands also unto thy commandments, which I have loved; And I will meditate on thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Remember the word unto thy servant, Because thou hast made me to hope. <a id="c119_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> This is my comfort in my affliction; For thy word hath quickened me. <a id="c119_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> The proud have had me greatly in derision: Yet have I not swerved from thy law. <a id="c119_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> I have remembered thine ordinances of old, O Jehovah, And have comforted myself. <a id="c119_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Hot indignation hath taken hold upon me, Because of the wicked that forsake thy law. <a id="c119_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Thy statutes have been my songs In the house of my pilgrimage. <a id="c119_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> I have remembered thy name, O Jehovah, in the night, And have observed thy law. <a id="c119_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> This I have had, Because I have kept thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Jehovah is my portion: I have said that I would observe thy words. <a id="c119_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> I entreated thy favor with my whole heart: Be merciful unto me according to thy word. <a id="c119_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> I thought on my ways, And turned my feet unto thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> I made haste, and delayed not, To observe thy commandments. <a id="c119_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> The cords of the wicked have wrapped me round; But I have not forgotten thy law. <a id="c119_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee Because of thy righteous ordinances. <a id="c119_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> I am a companion of all them that fear thee, And of them that observe thy precepts. <a id="c119_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> The earth, O Jehovah, is full of thy lovingkindness: Teach me thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O Jehovah, according unto thy word. <a id="c119_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> Teach me good judgment and knowledge; For I have believed in thy commandments. <a id="c119_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Before I was afflicted I went astray; But now I observe thy word. <a id="c119_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> Thou art good, and doest good; Teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> The proud have forged a lie against me: With my whole heart will I keep thy precepts. <a id="c119_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> Their heart is as fat as grease; But I delight in thy law. <a id="c119_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> It is good for me that I have been afflicted; That I may learn thy statutes. <a id="c119_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> The law of thy mouth is better unto me Than thousands of gold and silver.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: Give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments. <a id="c119_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> They that fear thee shall see me and be glad, Because I have hoped in thy word. <a id="c119_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> I know, O Jehovah, that thy judgments are righteous, And that in faithfulness thou hast afflicted me. <a id="c119_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> Let, I pray thee, thy lovingkindness be for my comfort, According to thy word unto thy servant. <a id="c119_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live; For thy law is my delight. <a id="c119_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> Let the proud be put to shame; For they have overthrown me wrongfully: But I will meditate on thy precepts. <a id="c119_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> Let those that fear thee turn unto me; And they shall know thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> Let my heart be perfect in thy statutes, That I be not put to shame.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v81"></a><span class="vn">81</span> My soul fainteth for thy salvation; But I hope in thy word. <a id="c119_v82"></a><span class="vn">82</span> Mine eyes fail for thy word, While I say, When wilt thou comfort me? <a id="c119_v83"></a><span class="vn">83</span> For I am become like a wine-skin in the smoke; Yet do I not forget thy statutes. <a id="c119_v84"></a><span class="vn">84</span> How many are the days of thy servant? When wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me? <a id="c119_v85"></a><span class="vn">85</span> The proud have digged pits for me, Who are not according to thy law. <a id="c119_v86"></a><span class="vn">86</span> All thy commandments are faithful: They persecute me wrongfully; help thou me. <a id="c119_v87"></a><span class="vn">87</span> They had almost consumed me upon earth; But I forsook not thy precepts. <a id="c119_v88"></a><span class="vn">88</span> Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; So shall I observe the testimony of thy mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v89"></a><span class="vn">89</span> For ever, O Jehovah, Thy word is settled in heaven. <a id="c119_v90"></a><span class="vn">90</span> Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: Thou hast established the earth, and it abideth. <a id="c119_v91"></a><span class="vn">91</span> They abide this day according to thine ordinances; For all things are thy servants. <a id="c119_v92"></a><span class="vn">92</span> Unless thy law had been my delight, I should then have perished in mine affliction. <a id="c119_v93"></a><span class="vn">93</span> I will never forget thy precepts; For with them thou hast quickened me. <a id="c119_v94"></a><span class="vn">94</span> I am thine, save me; For I have sought thy precepts. <a id="c119_v95"></a><span class="vn">95</span> The wicked have waited for me, to destroy me; But I will consider thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v96"></a><span class="vn">96</span> I have seen an end of all perfection; But thy commandment is exceeding broad. <a id="c119_v97"></a><span class="vn">97</span> Oh how love I thy law! It is my meditation all the day. <a id="c119_v98"></a><span class="vn">98</span> Thy commandments make me wiser than mine enemies; For they are ever with me. <a id="c119_v99"></a><span class="vn">99</span> I have more understanding than all my teachers; For thy testimonies are my meditation. <a id="c119_v100"></a><span class="vn">100</span> I understand more than the aged, Because I have kept thy precepts. <a id="c119_v101"></a><span class="vn">101</span> I have refrained my feet from every evil way, That I might observe thy word. <a id="c119_v102"></a><span class="vn">102</span> I have not turned aside from thine ordinances; For thou hast taught me. <a id="c119_v103"></a><span class="vn">103</span> How sweet are thy words unto my taste! Yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth! <a id="c119_v104"></a><span class="vn">104</span> Through thy precepts I get understanding: Therefore I hate every false way.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v105"></a><span class="vn">105</span> Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, And light unto my path. <a id="c119_v106"></a><span class="vn">106</span> I have sworn, and have confirmed it, That I will observe thy righteous ordinances. <a id="c119_v107"></a><span class="vn">107</span> I am afflicted very much: Quicken me, O Jehovah, according unto thy word. <a id="c119_v108"></a><span class="vn">108</span> Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill-offerings of my mouth, O Jehovah, And teach me thine ordinances. <a id="c119_v109"></a><span class="vn">109</span> My soul is continually in my hand; Yet do I not forget thy law. <a id="c119_v110"></a><span class="vn">110</span> The wicked have laid a snare for me; Yet have I not gone astray from thy precepts. <a id="c119_v111"></a><span class="vn">111</span> Thy testimonies have I taken as a heritage for ever; For they are the rejoicing of my heart. <a id="c119_v112"></a><span class="vn">112</span> I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes For ever, even unto the end.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v113"></a><span class="vn">113</span> I hate them that are of a double mind; But thy law do I love. <a id="c119_v114"></a><span class="vn">114</span> Thou art my hiding-place and my shield: I hope in thy word. <a id="c119_v115"></a><span class="vn">115</span> Depart from me, ye evil-doers, That I may keep the commandments of my God. <a id="c119_v116"></a><span class="vn">116</span> Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live; And let me not be ashamed of my hope. <a id="c119_v117"></a><span class="vn">117</span> Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe, And shall have respect unto thy statutes continually. <a id="c119_v118"></a><span class="vn">118</span> Thou hast set at nought all them that err from thy statutes; For their deceit is falsehood. <a id="c119_v119"></a><span class="vn">119</span> Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross: Therefore I love thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v120"></a><span class="vn">120</span> My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; And I am afraid of thy judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v121"></a><span class="vn">121</span> I have done justice and righteousness: Leave me not to mine oppressors. <a id="c119_v122"></a><span class="vn">122</span> Be surety for thy servant for good: Let not the proud oppress me. <a id="c119_v123"></a><span class="vn">123</span> Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, And for thy righteous word. <a id="c119_v124"></a><span class="vn">124</span> Deal with thy servant according unto thy lovingkindness, And teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v125"></a><span class="vn">125</span> I am thy servant; give me understanding, That I may know thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v126"></a><span class="vn">126</span> It is time for Jehovah to work; For they have made void thy law. <a id="c119_v127"></a><span class="vn">127</span> Therefore I love thy commandments Above gold, yea, above fine gold. <a id="c119_v128"></a><span class="vn">128</span> Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right; And I hate every false way.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v129"></a><span class="vn">129</span> Thy testimonies are wonderful; Therefore doth my soul keep them. <a id="c119_v130"></a><span class="vn">130</span> The opening of thy words giveth light; It giveth understanding unto the simple. <a id="c119_v131"></a><span class="vn">131</span> I opened wide my mouth, and panted; For I longed for thy commandments. <a id="c119_v132"></a><span class="vn">132</span> Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me, As thou usest to do unto those that love thy name. <a id="c119_v133"></a><span class="vn">133</span> Establish my footsteps in thy word; And let not any iniquity have dominion over me. <a id="c119_v134"></a><span class="vn">134</span> Redeem me from the oppression of man: So will I observe thy precepts. <a id="c119_v135"></a><span class="vn">135</span> Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; And teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v136"></a><span class="vn">136</span> Streams of water run down mine eyes, Because they observe not thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v137"></a><span class="vn">137</span> Righteous art thou, O Jehovah, And upright are thy judgments. <a id="c119_v138"></a><span class="vn">138</span> Thou hast commanded thy testimonies in righteousness And very faithfulness. <a id="c119_v139"></a><span class="vn">139</span> My zeal hath consumed me, Because mine adversaries have forgotten thy words. <a id="c119_v140"></a><span class="vn">140</span> Thy word is very pure; Therefore thy servant loveth it. <a id="c119_v141"></a><span class="vn">141</span> I am small and despised; Yet do I not forget thy precepts. <a id="c119_v142"></a><span class="vn">142</span> Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, And thy law is truth. <a id="c119_v143"></a><span class="vn">143</span> Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me; Yet thy commandments are my delight. <a id="c119_v144"></a><span class="vn">144</span> Thy testimonies are righteous for ever: Give me understanding, and I shall live.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v145"></a><span class="vn">145</span> I have called with my whole heart; answer me, O Jehovah: I will keep thy statutes. <a id="c119_v146"></a><span class="vn">146</span> I have called unto thee; save me, And I shall observe thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v147"></a><span class="vn">147</span> I anticipated the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy words. <a id="c119_v148"></a><span class="vn">148</span> Mine eyes anticipated the night-watches, That I might meditate on thy word. <a id="c119_v149"></a><span class="vn">149</span> Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: Quicken me, O Jehovah, according to thine ordinances. <a id="c119_v150"></a><span class="vn">150</span> They draw nigh that follow after wickedness; They are far from thy law. <a id="c119_v151"></a><span class="vn">151</span> Thou art nigh, O Jehovah; And all thy commandments are truth. <a id="c119_v152"></a><span class="vn">152</span> Of old have I known from thy testimonies, That thou hast founded them for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v153"></a><span class="vn">153</span> Consider mine affliction, and deliver me; For I do not forget thy law. <a id="c119_v154"></a><span class="vn">154</span> Plead thou my cause, and redeem me: Quicken me according to thy word. <a id="c119_v155"></a><span class="vn">155</span> Salvation is far from the wicked; For they seek not thy statutes. <a id="c119_v156"></a><span class="vn">156</span> Great are thy tender mercies, O Jehovah: Quicken me according to thine ordinances. <a id="c119_v157"></a><span class="vn">157</span> Many are my persecutors and mine adversaries; Yet have I not swerved from thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v158"></a><span class="vn">158</span> I beheld the treacherous, and was grieved, Because they observe not thy word. <a id="c119_v159"></a><span class="vn">159</span> Consider how I love thy precepts: Quicken me, O Jehovah, according to thy lovingkindness. <a id="c119_v160"></a><span class="vn">160</span> The sum of thy word is truth; And every one of thy righteous ordinances endureth for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v161"></a><span class="vn">161</span> Princes have persecuted me without a cause; But my heart standeth in awe of thy words. <a id="c119_v162"></a><span class="vn">162</span> I rejoice at thy word, As one that findeth great spoil. <a id="c119_v163"></a><span class="vn">163</span> I hate and abhor falsehood; But thy law do I love. <a id="c119_v164"></a><span class="vn">164</span> Seven times a day do I praise thee, Because of thy righteous ordinances. <a id="c119_v165"></a><span class="vn">165</span> Great peace have they that love thy law; And they have no occasion of stumbling. <a id="c119_v166"></a><span class="vn">166</span> I have hoped for thy salvation, O Jehovah, And have done thy commandments. <a id="c119_v167"></a><span class="vn">167</span> My soul hath observed thy testimonies; And I love them exceedingly. <a id="c119_v168"></a><span class="vn">168</span> I have observed thy precepts and thy testimonies; For all my ways are before thee.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v169"></a><span class="vn">169</span> Let my cry come near before thee, O Jehovah: Give me understanding according to thy word. <a id="c119_v170"></a><span class="vn">170</span> Let my supplication come before thee: Deliver me according to thy word. <a id="c119_v171"></a><span class="vn">171</span> Let my lips utter praise; For thou teachest me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v172"></a><span class="vn">172</span> Let my tongue sing of thy word; For all thy commandments are righteousness. <a id="c119_v173"></a><span class="vn">173</span> Let thy hand be ready to help me; For I have chosen thy precepts. <a id="c119_v174"></a><span class="vn">174</span> I have longed for thy salvation, O Jehovah; And thy law is my delight. <a id="c119_v175"></a><span class="vn">175</span> Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; And let thine ordinances help me. <a id="c119_v176"></a><span class="vn">176</span> I have gone astray like a lost sheep; Seek thy servant; For I do not forget thy commandments.</p>

</body>
</html>