<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 44</h2>

<p><a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> We have heard with our ears, O God, Our fathers have told us, What work thou didst in their days, In the days of old. <a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou didst drive out the nations with thy hand; But them thou didst plant: Thou didst afflict the peoples; But them thou didst spread abroad. <a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For they gat not the land in possession by their own sword, Neither did their own arm save them; But thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, Because thou wast favorable unto them. <a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou art my King, O God: Command deliverance for Jacob. <a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Through thee will we push down our adversaries: Through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us. <a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I will not trust in my bow, Neither shall my sword save me. <a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But thou hast saved us from our adversaries, And hast put them to shame that hate us. <a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In God have we made our boast all the day long, And we will give thanks unto thy name for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But now thou hast cast us off, and brought us to dishonor, And goest not forth with our hosts. <a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou makest us to turn back from the adversary; And they that hate us take spoil for themselves. <a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast made us like sheep appointed for food, And hast scattered us among the nations. <a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou sellest thy people for nought, And hast not increased thy wealth by their price. <a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbors, A scoffing and a derision to them that are round about us. <a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou makest us a byword among the nations, A shaking of the head among the peoples. <a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All the day long is my dishonor before me, And the shame of my face hath covered me, <a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth, By reason of the enemy and the avenger. <a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All this is come upon us; Yet have we not forgotten thee, Neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant. <a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Our heart is not turned back, Neither have our steps declined from thy way, <a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> That thou hast sore broken us in the place of jackals, And covered us with the shadow of death. <a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If we have forgotten the name of our God, Or spread forth our hands to a strange god; <a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Will not God search this out? For he knoweth the secrets of the heart. <a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; We are accounted as sheep for the slaughter. <a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? Arise, cast us not off for ever. <a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wherefore hidest thou thy face, And forgettest our affliction and our oppression? <a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For our soul is bowed down to the dust: Our body cleaveth unto the earth. <a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Rise up for our help, And redeem us for thy lovingkindness’ sake.</p>

</body>
</html>