<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 102</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 102</h2>

<p><a id="c102_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear my prayer, O Jehovah, And let my cry come unto thee. <a id="c102_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hide not thy face from me in the day of my distress: Incline thine ear unto me; In the day when I call answer me speedily. <a id="c102_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my days consume away like smoke, And my bones are burned as a firebrand. <a id="c102_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart is smitten like grass, and withered; For I forget to eat my bread. <a id="c102_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By reason of the voice of my groaning My bones cleave to my flesh. <a id="c102_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I am like a pelican of the wilderness; I am become as an owl of the waste places. <a id="c102_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I watch, and am become like a sparrow That is alone upon the house-top. <a id="c102_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Mine enemies reproach me all the day; They that are mad against me do curse by me. <a id="c102_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I have eaten ashes like bread, And mingled my drink with weeping, <a id="c102_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: For thou hast taken me up, and cast me away. <a id="c102_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days are like a shadow that declineth; And I am withered like grass.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But thou, O Jehovah, wilt abide for ever; And thy memorial name unto all generations. <a id="c102_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou wilt arise, and have mercy upon Zion; For it is time to have pity upon her, Yea, the set time is come. <a id="c102_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, And have pity upon her dust. <a id="c102_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So the nations shall fear the name of Jehovah, And all the kings of the earth thy glory. <a id="c102_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For Jehovah hath built up Zion; He hath appeared in his glory. <a id="c102_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He hath regarded the prayer of the destitute, And hath not despised their prayer. <a id="c102_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> This shall be written for the generation to come; And a people which shall be created shall praise Jehovah. <a id="c102_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; From heaven did Jehovah behold the earth; <a id="c102_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> To hear the sighing of the prisoner; To loose those that are appointed to death; <a id="c102_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> That men may declare the name of Jehovah in Zion, And his praise in Jerusalem; <a id="c102_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When the peoples are gathered together, And the kingdoms, to serve Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He weakened my strength in the way; He shortened my days. <a id="c102_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: Thy years are throughout all generations. <a id="c102_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Of old didst thou lay the foundation of the earth; And the heavens are the work of thy hands. <a id="c102_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They shall perish, but thou shalt endure; Yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; As a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: <a id="c102_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But thou art the same, And thy years shall have no end. <a id="c102_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The children of thy servants shall continue, And their seed shall be established before thee.</p>

</body>
</html>