<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 66</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 66</h2>

<p><a id="c66_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Make a joyful noise unto God, all the earth: <a id="c66_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing forth the glory of his name: Make his praise glorious. <a id="c66_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Say unto God, How terrible are thy works! Through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee. <a id="c66_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> All the earth shall worship thee, And shall sing unto thee; They shall sing to thy name.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Come, and see the works of God; He is terrible in his doing toward the children of men. <a id="c66_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He turned the sea into dry land; They went through the river on foot: There did we rejoice in him. <a id="c66_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He ruleth by his might for ever; His eyes observe the nations: Let not the rebellious exalt themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Oh bless our God, ye peoples, And make the voice of his praise to be heard; <a id="c66_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who holdeth our soul in life, And suffereth not our feet to be moved. <a id="c66_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou, O God, hast proved us: Thou hast tried us, as silver is tried. <a id="c66_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou broughtest us into the net; Thou layedst a sore burden upon our loins. <a id="c66_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou didst cause men to ride over our heads; We went through fire and through water; But thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place. <a id="c66_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will come into thy house with burnt-offerings; I will pay thee my vows, <a id="c66_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Which my lips uttered, And my mouth spake, when I was in distress. <a id="c66_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will offer unto thee burnt-offerings of fatlings, With the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Come, and hear, all ye that fear God, And I will declare what he hath done for my soul. <a id="c66_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I cried unto him with my mouth, And he was extolled with my tongue. <a id="c66_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I regard iniquity in my heart, The Lord will not hear: <a id="c66_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But verily God hath heard; He hath attended to the voice of my prayer. <a id="c66_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Blessed be God, Who hath not turned away my prayer, Nor his lovingkindness from me.</p>

</body>
</html>