<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Unto thee, O Jehovah, will I call: My rock, be not thou deaf unto me; Lest, if thou be silent unto me, I become like them that go down into the pit. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, When I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Draw me not away with the wicked, And with the workers of iniquity; That speak peace with their neighbors, But mischief is in their hearts. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give them according to their work, and according to the wickedness of their doings: Give them after the operation of their hands; Render to them their desert. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because they regard not the works of Jehovah, Nor the operation of his hands, He will break them down and not build them up.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessed be Jehovah, Because he hath heard the voice of my supplications. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah is my strength and my shield; My heart hath trusted in him, and I am helped: Therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; And with my song will I praise him. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah is their strength, And he is a stronghold of salvation to his anointed. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance: Be their shepherd also, and bear them up for ever.</p>

</body>
</html>