<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Strive thou, O Jehovah, with them that strive with me: Fight thou against them that fight against me. <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take hold of shield and buckler, And stand up for my help. <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that pursue me: Say unto my soul, I am thy salvation. <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let them be put to shame and brought to dishonor that seek after my soul: Let them be turned back and confounded that devise my hurt. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let them be as chaff before the wind, And the angel of Jehovah driving them on. <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let their way be dark and slippery, And the angel of Jehovah pursuing them. <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit; Without cause have they digged a pit for my soul. <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let destruction come upon him unawares; And let his net that he hath hid catch himself: With destruction let him fall therein. <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And my soul shall be joyful in Jehovah: It shall rejoice in his salvation. <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All my bones shall say, Jehovah, who is like unto thee, Who deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, Yea, the poor and the needy from him that robbeth him? <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Unrighteous witnesses rise up; They ask me of things that I know not. <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They reward me evil for good, To the bereaving of my soul. <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I afflicted my soul with fasting; And my prayer returned into mine own bosom. <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I behaved myself as though it had been my friend or my brother: I bowed down mourning, as one that bewaileth his mother. <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: The abjects gathered themselves together against me, and I knew it not; They did tear me, and ceased not: <a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Like the profane mockers in feasts, They gnashed upon me with their teeth. <a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Lord, how long wilt thou look on? Rescue my soul from their destructions, My darling from the lions. <a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will give thee thanks in the great assembly: I will praise thee among much people. <a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me; Neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause. <a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For they speak not peace; But they devise deceitful words against them that are quiet in the land. <a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me; They said, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it. <a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou hast seen it, O Jehovah; keep not silence: O Lord, be not far from me. <a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Stir up thyself, and awake to the justice due unto me, Even unto my cause, my God and my Lord. <a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Judge me, O Jehovah my God, according to thy righteousness; And let them not rejoice over me. <a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let them not say in their heart, Aha, so would we have it: Let them not say, We have swallowed him up. <a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Let them be put to shame and confounded together that rejoice at my hurt: Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor that magnify themselves against me. <a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favor my righteous cause: Yea, let them say continually, Jehovah be magnified, Who hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant. <a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And my tongue shall talk of thy righteousness And of thy praise all the day long.</p>

</body>
</html>