<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, There is no fear of God before his eyes. <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, That his iniquity will not be found out and be hated. <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: He hath ceased to be wise and to do good. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He deviseth iniquity upon his bed; He setteth himself in a way that is not good; He abhorreth not evil.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thy lovingkindness, O Jehovah, is in the heavens; Thy faithfulness reacheth unto the skies. <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy righteousness is like the mountains of God; Thy judgments are a great deep: O Jehovah, thou preservest man and beast. <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> How precious is thy lovingkindness, O God! And the children of men take refuge under the shadow of thy wings. <a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house; And thou wilt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures. <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For with thee is the fountain of life: In thy light shall we see light. <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Oh continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee, And thy righteousness to the upright in heart. <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let not the foot of pride come against me, And let not the hand of the wicked drive me away. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There are the workers of iniquity fallen: They are thrust down, and shall not be able to rise.</p>

</body>
</html>