<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 144</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 144</h2>

<p><a id="c144_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed be Jehovah my rock, Who teacheth my hands to war, And my fingers to fight: <a id="c144_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My lovingkindness, and my fortress, My high tower, and my deliverer; My shield, and he in whom I take refuge; Who subdueth my people under me. <a id="c144_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah, what is man, that thou takest knowledge of him? Or the son of man, that thou makest account of him? <a id="c144_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Man is like to vanity: His days are as a shadow that passeth away. <a id="c144_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Bow thy heavens, O Jehovah, and come down: Touch the mountains, and they shall smoke. <a id="c144_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Cast forth lightning, and scatter them; Send out thine arrows, and discomfit them. <a id="c144_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Stretch forth thy hand from above; Rescue me, and deliver me out of great waters, Out of the hand of aliens; <a id="c144_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whose mouth speaketh deceit, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. <a id="c144_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: Upon a psaltery of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee. <a id="c144_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou art he that giveth salvation unto kings; Who rescueth David his servant from the hurtful sword. <a id="c144_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rescue me, and deliver me out of the hand of aliens, Whose mouth speaketh deceit, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When our sons shall be as plants grown up in their youth, And our daughters as corner-stones hewn after the fashion of a palace; <a id="c144_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When our garners are full, affording all manner of store, And our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields; <a id="c144_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When our oxen are well laden; When there is no breaking in, and no going forth, And no outcry in our streets: <a id="c144_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Happy is the people that is in such a case; Yea, happy is the people whose God is Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>