<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah is my light and my salvation; Whom shall I fear? Jehovah is the strength of my life; Of whom shall I be afraid? <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When evil-doers came upon me to eat up my flesh, Even mine adversaries and my foes, they stumbled and fell. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Though a host should encamp against me, My heart shall not fear: Though war should rise against me, Even then will I be confident. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One thing have I asked of Jehovah, that will I seek after; That I may dwell in the house of Jehovah all the days of my life, To behold the beauty of Jehovah, And to inquire in his temple. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For in the day of trouble he will keep me secretly in his pavilion: In the covert of his tabernacle will he hide me; He will lift me up upon a rock. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now shall my head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me. And I will offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear, O Jehovah, when I cry with my voice: Have mercy also upon me, and answer me. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; My heart said unto thee, Thy face, Jehovah, will I seek. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hide not thy face from me; Put not thy servant away in anger: Thou hast been my help; Cast me not off, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When my father and my mother forsake me, Then Jehovah will take me up. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Teach me thy way, O Jehovah; And lead me in a plain path, Because of mine enemies. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Deliver me not over unto the will of mine adversaries: For false witnesses are risen up against me, And such as breathe out cruelty. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of Jehovah In the land of the living. <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wait for Jehovah: Be strong, and let thy heart take courage; Yea, wait thou for Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>