<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 73</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 73</h2>

<p><a id="c73_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Surely God is good to Israel, Even to such as are pure in heart. <a id="c73_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But as for me, my feet were almost gone; My steps had well nigh slipped. <a id="c73_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I was envious at the arrogant, When I saw the prosperity of the wicked. <a id="c73_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For there are no pangs in their death; But their strength is firm. <a id="c73_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are not in trouble as other men; Neither are they plagued like other men. <a id="c73_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore pride is as a chain about their neck; Violence covereth them as a garment. <a id="c73_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their eyes stand out with fatness: They have more than heart could wish. <a id="c73_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They scoff, and in wickedness utter oppression: They speak loftily. <a id="c73_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They have set their mouth in the heavens, And their tongue walketh through the earth. <a id="c73_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore his people return hither: And waters of a full cup are drained by them. <a id="c73_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they say, How doth God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High? <a id="c73_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, these are the wicked; And, being alway at ease, they increase in riches. <a id="c73_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely in vain have I cleansed my heart, And washed my hands in innocency; <a id="c73_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For all the day long have I been plagued, And chastened every morning. <a id="c73_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I had said, I will speak thus; Behold, I had dealt treacherously with the generation of thy children. <a id="c73_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When I thought how I might know this, It was too painful for me; <a id="c73_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Until I went into the sanctuary of God, And considered their latter end. <a id="c73_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Surely thou settest them in slippery places: Thou castest them down to destruction. <a id="c73_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How are they become a desolation in a moment! They are utterly consumed with terrors. <a id="c73_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> As a dream when one awaketh, So, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou wilt despise their image. <a id="c73_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For my soul was grieved, And I was pricked in my heart: <a id="c73_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So brutish was I, and ignorant; I was as a beast before thee. <a id="c73_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Nevertheless I am continually with thee: Thou hast holden my right hand. <a id="c73_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thou wilt guide me with thy counsel, And afterward receive me to glory. <a id="c73_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whom have I in heaven but thee? And there is none upon earth that I desire besides thee. <a id="c73_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> My flesh and my heart faileth; But God is the strength of my heart and my portion for ever. <a id="c73_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: Thou hast destroyed all them that play the harlot, departing from thee. <a id="c73_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But it is good for me to draw near unto God: I have made the Lord Jehovah my refuge, That I may tell of all thy works.</p>

</body>
</html>