<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 89</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 89</h2>

<p><a id="c89_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will sing of the lovingkindness of Jehovah for ever: With my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations. <a id="c89_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever; Thy faithfulness wilt thou establish in the very heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant: <a id="c89_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy seed will I establish for ever, And build up thy throne to all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O Jehovah; Thy faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones. <a id="c89_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For who in the skies can be compared unto Jehovah? Who among the sons of the mighty is like unto Jehovah, <a id="c89_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A God very terrible in the council of the holy ones, And to be feared above all them that are round about him? <a id="c89_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O Jehovah God of hosts, Who is a mighty one, like unto thee, O Jehovah? And thy faithfulness is round about thee. <a id="c89_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou rulest the pride of the sea: When the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them. <a id="c89_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; Thou hast scattered thine enemies with the arm of thy strength. <a id="c89_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: The world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them. <a id="c89_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The north and the south, thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon rejoice in thy name. <a id="c89_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou hast a mighty arm; Strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand. <a id="c89_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Righteousness and justice are the foundation of thy throne: Lovingkindness and truth go before thy face. <a id="c89_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: They walk, O Jehovah, in the light of thy countenance. <a id="c89_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In thy name do they rejoice all the day; And in thy righteousness are they exalted. <a id="c89_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For thou art the glory of their strength; And in thy favor our horn shall be exalted. <a id="c89_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For our shield belongeth unto Jehovah; And our king to the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then thou spakest in vision to thy saints, And saidst, I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people. <a id="c89_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have found David my servant; With my holy oil have I anointed him: <a id="c89_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> With whom my hand shall be established; Mine arm also shall strengthen him. <a id="c89_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The enemy shall not exact from him, Nor the son of wickedness afflict him. <a id="c89_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will beat down his adversaries before him, And smite them that hate him. <a id="c89_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But my faithfulness and my lovingkindness shall be with him; And in my name shall his horn be exalted. <a id="c89_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I will set his hand also on the sea, And his right hand on the rivers. <a id="c89_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He shall cry unto me, Thou art my Father, My God, and the rock of my salvation. <a id="c89_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I also will make him my first-born, The highest of the kings of the earth. <a id="c89_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My lovingkindness will I keep for him for evermore; And my covenant shall stand fast with him. <a id="c89_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> His seed also will I make to endure for ever, And his throne as the days of heaven. <a id="c89_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If his children forsake my law, And walk not in mine ordinances; <a id="c89_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If they break my statutes, And keep not my commandments; <a id="c89_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, And their iniquity with stripes. <a id="c89_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, Nor suffer my faithfulness to fail. <a id="c89_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> My covenant will I not break, Nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips. <a id="c89_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Once have I sworn by my holiness: I will not lie unto David: <a id="c89_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> His seed shall endure for ever, And his throne as the sun before me. <a id="c89_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> It shall be established for ever as the moon, And as the faithful witness in the sky.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But thou hast cast off and rejected, Thou hast been wroth with thine anointed. <a id="c89_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Thou hast abhorred the covenant of thy servant: Thou hast profaned his crown by casting it to the ground. <a id="c89_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Thou hast broken down all his hedges; Thou hast brought his strongholds to ruin. <a id="c89_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> All that pass by the way rob him: He is become a reproach to his neighbors. <a id="c89_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Thou hast exalted the right hand of his adversaries; Thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice. <a id="c89_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Yea, thou turnest back the edge of his sword, And hast not made him to stand in the battle. <a id="c89_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Thou hast made his brightness to cease, And cast his throne down to the ground. <a id="c89_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The days of his youth hast thou shortened: Thou hast covered him with shame.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> How long, O Jehovah? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? How long shall thy wrath burn like fire? <a id="c89_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Oh remember how short my time is: For what vanity hast thou created all the children of men! <a id="c89_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> What man is he that shall live and not see death, That shall deliver his soul from the power of Sheol?</p>

<p><a id="c89_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Lord, where are thy former lovingkindnesses, Which thou swarest unto David in thy faithfulness? <a id="c89_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; How I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty peoples, <a id="c89_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O Jehovah, Wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Blessed be Jehovah for evermore. Amen, and Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>