<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 45</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 45</h2>

<p><a id="c45_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My heart overfloweth with a goodly matter; I speak the things which I have made touching the king: My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. <a id="c45_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou art fairer than the children of men; Grace is poured into thy lips: Therefore God hath blessed thee for ever. <a id="c45_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O mighty one, Thy glory and thy majesty. <a id="c45_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And in thy majesty ride on prosperously, Because of truth and meekness and righteousness: And thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. <a id="c45_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thine arrows are sharp; The peoples fall under thee; They are in the heart of the king’s enemies. <a id="c45_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: A sceptre of equity is the sceptre of thy kingdom. <a id="c45_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated wickedness: Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee With the oil of gladness above thy fellows. <a id="c45_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia; Out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made thee glad. <a id="c45_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Kings’ daughters are among thy honorable women: At thy right hand doth stand the queen in gold of Ophir. <a id="c45_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; Forget also thine own people, and thy father’s house: <a id="c45_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So will the king desire thy beauty; For he is thy lord; and reverence thou him. <a id="c45_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; The rich among the people shall entreat thy favor. <a id="c45_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The king’s daughter within the palace is all glorious: Her clothing is inwrought with gold. <a id="c45_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> She shall be led unto the king in broidered work: The virgins her companions that follow her Shall be brought unto thee. <a id="c45_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> With gladness and rejoicing shall they be led: They shall enter into the king’s palace. <a id="c45_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, Whom thou shalt make princes in all the earth. <a id="c45_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations: Therefore shall the peoples give thee thanks for ever and ever.</p>

</body>
</html>