<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 56</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 56</h2>

<p><a id="c56_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be merciful unto me, O God; for man would swallow me up: All the day long he fighting oppresseth me. <a id="c56_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Mine enemies would swallow me up all the day long; For they are many that fight proudly against me. <a id="c56_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> What time I am afraid, I will put my trust in thee. <a id="c56_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In God (I will praise his word), In God have I put my trust, I will not be afraid; What can flesh do unto me? <a id="c56_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All the day long they wrest my words: All their thoughts are against me for evil. <a id="c56_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, They mark my steps, Even as they have waited for my soul. <a id="c56_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Shall they escape by iniquity? In anger cast down the peoples, O God. <a id="c56_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou numberest my wanderings: Put thou my tears into thy bottle; Are they not in thy book? <a id="c56_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then shall mine enemies turn back in the day that I call: This I know, that God is for me. <a id="c56_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In God (I will praise his word), In Jehovah (I will praise his word), <a id="c56_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In God have I put my trust, I will not be afraid; What can man do unto me? <a id="c56_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render thank-offerings unto thee. <a id="c56_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For thou hast delivered my soul from death: Hast thou not delivered my feet from falling, That I may walk before God In the light of the living?</p>

</body>
</html>