<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 97</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 97</h2>

<p><a id="c97_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah reigneth; let the earth rejoice; Let the multitude of isles be glad. <a id="c97_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Clouds and darkness are round about him: Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne. <a id="c97_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A fire goeth before him, And burneth up his adversaries round about. <a id="c97_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His lightnings lightened the world: The earth saw, and trembled. <a id="c97_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The mountains melted like wax at the presence of Jehovah, At the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. <a id="c97_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The heavens declare his righteousness, And all the peoples have seen his glory. <a id="c97_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let all them be put to shame that serve graven images, That boast themselves of idols: Worship him, all ye gods. <a id="c97_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Zion heard and was glad, And the daughters of Judah rejoiced, Because of thy judgments, O Jehovah. <a id="c97_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For thou, Jehovah, art most high above all the earth: Thou art exalted far above all gods. <a id="c97_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O ye that love Jehovah, hate evil: He preserveth the souls of his saints; He delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked. <a id="c97_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Light is sown for the righteous, And gladness for the upright in heart. <a id="c97_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Be glad in Jehovah, ye righteous; And give thanks to his holy memorial name.</p>

</body>
</html>