<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 115</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 115</h2>

<p><a id="c115_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Not unto us, O Jehovah, not unto us, But unto thy name give glory, For thy lovingkindness, and for thy truth’s sake. <a id="c115_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wherefore should the nations say, Where is now their God? <a id="c115_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But our God is in the heavens: He hath done whatsoever he pleased. <a id="c115_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their idols are silver and gold, The work of men’s hands. <a id="c115_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have mouths, but they speak not; Eyes have they, but they see not; <a id="c115_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They have ears, but they hear not; Noses have they, but they smell not; <a id="c115_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have hands, but they handle not; Feet have they, but they walk not; Neither speak they through their throat. <a id="c115_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They that make them shall be like unto them; Yea, every one that trusteth in them. <a id="c115_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Israel, trust thou in Jehovah: He is their help and their shield. <a id="c115_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O house of Aaron, trust ye in Jehovah: He is their help and their shield. <a id="c115_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ye that fear Jehovah, trust in Jehovah: He is their help and their shield. <a id="c115_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jehovah hath been mindful of us; he will bless us: He will bless the house of Israel; He will bless the house of Aaron. <a id="c115_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will bless them that fear Jehovah, Both small and great. <a id="c115_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah increase you more and more, You and your children. <a id="c115_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blessed are ye of Jehovah, Who made heaven and earth. <a id="c115_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The heavens are the heavens of Jehovah; But the earth hath he given to the children of men. <a id="c115_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The dead praise not Jehovah, Neither any that go down into silence; <a id="c115_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But we will bless Jehovah From this time forth and for evermore. Praise ye Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>