<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Doth not wisdom cry, And understanding put forth her voice? <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> On the top of high places by the way, Where the paths meet, she standeth; <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Beside the gates, at the entry of the city, At the coming in at the doors, she crieth aloud: <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Unto you, O men, I call; And my voice is to the sons of men. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O ye simple, understand prudence; And, ye fools, be of an understanding heart. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear, for I will speak excellent things; And the opening of my lips shall be right things. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For my mouth shall utter truth; And wickedness is an abomination to my lips. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; There is nothing crooked or perverse in them. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They are all plain to him that understandeth, And right to them that find knowledge. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Receive my instruction, and not silver; And knowledge rather than choice gold. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For wisdom is better than rubies; And all the things that may be desired are not to be compared unto it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I wisdom have made prudence my dwelling, And find out knowledge and discretion. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fear of Jehovah is to hate evil: Pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, And the perverse mouth, do I hate. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Counsel is mine, and sound knowledge: I am understanding; I have might. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By me kings reign, And princes decree justice. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> By me princes rule, And nobles, even all the judges of the earth. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I love them that love me; And those that seek me diligently shall find me. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Riches and honor are with me; Yea, durable wealth and righteousness. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; And my revenue than choice silver. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I walk in the way of righteousness, In the midst of the paths of justice; <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance, And that I may fill their treasuries.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Jehovah possessed me in the beginning of his way, Before his works of old. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, Before the earth was. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When there were no depths, I was brought forth, When there were no fountains abounding with water. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Before the mountains were settled, Before the hills was I brought forth; <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, Nor the beginning of the dust of the world. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> When he established the heavens, I was there: When he set a circle upon the face of the deep, <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> When he made firm the skies above, When the fountains of the deep became strong, <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When he gave to the sea its bound, That the waters should not transgress his commandment, When he marked out the foundations of the earth; <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then I was by him, as a master workman; And I was daily his delight, Rejoicing always before him, <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Rejoicing in his habitable earth; And my delight was with the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now therefore, my sons, hearken unto me; For blessed are they that keep my ways. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Hear instruction, and be wise, And refuse it not. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Blessed is the man that heareth me, Watching daily at my gates, Waiting at the posts of my doors. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whoso findeth me findeth life, And shall obtain favor of Jehovah. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: All they that hate me love death.</p>

</body>
</html>