<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel: <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To know wisdom and instruction; To discern the words of understanding; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To receive instruction in wise dealing, In righteousness and justice and equity; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To give prudence to the simple, To the young man knowledge and discretion: <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That the wise man may hear, and increase in learning; And that the man of understanding may attain unto sound counsels: <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> To understand a proverb, and a figure, The words of the wise, and their dark sayings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The fear of Jehovah is the beginning of knowledge; But the foolish despise wisdom and instruction. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My son, hear the instruction of thy father, And forsake not the law of thy mother: <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For they shall be a chaplet of grace unto thy head, And chains about thy neck. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My son, if sinners entice thee, Consent thou not. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they say, Come with us, Let us lay wait for blood; Let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause; <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let us swallow them up alive as Sheol, And whole, as those that go down into the pit; <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> We shall find all precious substance; We shall fill our houses with spoil; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou shalt cast thy lot among us; We will all have one purse: <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My son, walk not thou in the way with them; Refrain thy foot from their path: <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For their feet run to evil, And they make haste to shed blood. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For in vain is the net spread In the sight of any bird: <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And these lay wait for their own blood; They lurk privily for their own lives. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; It taketh away the life of the owners thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wisdom crieth aloud in the street; She uttereth her voice in the broad places; <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She crieth in the chief place of concourse; At the entrance of the gates, In the city, she uttereth her words: <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? And scoffers delight them in scoffing, And fools hate knowledge? <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Turn you at my reproof: Behold, I will pour out my spirit upon you; I will make known my words unto you. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Because I have called, and ye have refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man hath regarded; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But ye have set at nought all my counsel, And would none of my reproof: <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I also will laugh in the day of your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh; <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> When your fear cometh as a storm, And your calamity cometh on as a whirlwind; When distress and anguish come upon you. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then will they call upon me, but I will not answer; They will seek me diligently, but they shall not find me: <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For that they hated knowledge, And did not choose the fear of Jehovah: <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They would none of my counsel; They despised all my reproof. <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, And be filled with their own devices. <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the backsliding of the simple shall slay them, And the careless ease of fools shall destroy them. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell securely, And shall be quiet without fear of evil.</p>

</body>
</html>