<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, attend unto my wisdom; Incline thine ear to my understanding: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> That thou mayest preserve discretion, And that thy lips may keep knowledge. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the lips of a strange woman drop honey, And her mouth is smoother than oil: <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But in the end she is bitter as wormwood, Sharp as a two-edged sword. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Her feet go down to death; Her steps take hold on Sheol; <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So that she findeth not the level path of life: Her ways are unstable, and she knoweth it not.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now therefore, my sons, hearken unto me, And depart not from the words of my mouth. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remove thy way far from her, And come not nigh the door of her house; <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lest thou give thine honor unto others, And thy years unto the cruel; <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lest strangers be filled with thy strength, And thy labors be in the house of an alien, <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thou mourn at thy latter end, When thy flesh and thy body are consumed, <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And say, How have I hated instruction, And my heart despised reproof; <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Neither have I obeyed the voice of my teachers, Nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me! <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I was well-nigh in all evil In the midst of the assembly and congregation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Drink waters out of thine own cistern, And running waters out of thine own well. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Should thy springs be dispersed abroad, And streams of water in the streets? <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let them be for thyself alone, And not for strangers with thee. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let thy fountain be blessed; And rejoice in the wife of thy youth. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As a loving hind and a pleasant doe, Let her breasts satisfy thee at all times; And be thou ravished always with her love. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For why shouldest thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, And embrace the bosom of a foreigner? <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the ways of man are before the eyes of Jehovah; And he maketh level all his paths. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> His own iniquities shall take the wicked, And he shall be holden with the cords of his sin. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He shall die for lack of instruction; And in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray.</p>

</body>
</html>