<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wisdom hath builded her house; She hath hewn out her seven pillars: <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> She hath killed her beasts; She hath mingled her wine; She hath also furnished her table: <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> She hath sent forth her maidens; She crieth upon the highest places of the city: <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: As for him that is void of understanding, she saith to him, <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Come, eat ye of my bread, And drink of the wine which I have mingled. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Leave off, ye simple ones, and live; And walk in the way of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He that correcteth a scoffer getteth to himself reviling; And he that reproveth a wicked man getteth himself a blot. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Reprove not a scoffer, lest he hate thee: Reprove a wise man, and he will love thee. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser: Teach a righteous man, and he will increase in learning. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The fear of Jehovah is the beginning of wisdom; And the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For by me thy days shall be multiplied, And the years of thy life shall be increased. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thou art wise, thou art wise for thyself; And if thou scoffest, thou alone shalt bear it.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The foolish woman is clamorous; She is simple, and knoweth nothing. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And she sitteth at the door of her house, On a seat in the high places of the city, <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To call to them that pass by, Who go right on their ways: <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither; And as for him that is void of understanding, she saith to him, <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Stolen waters are sweet, And bread eaten in secret is pleasant. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But he knoweth not that the dead are there; That her guests are in the depths of Sheol.</p>

</body>
</html>