<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear, my sons, the instruction of a father, And attend to know understanding: <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I give you good doctrine; Forsake ye not my law. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I was a son unto my father, Tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he taught me, and said unto me: Let thy heart retain my words; Keep my commandments, and live; <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Get wisdom, get understanding; Forget not, neither decline from the words of my mouth; <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Forsake her not, and she will preserve thee; Love her, and she will keep thee. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom; Yea, with all thy getting get understanding. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Exalt her, and she will promote thee; She will bring thee to honor, when thou dost embrace her. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> She will give to thy head a chaplet of grace; A crown of beauty will she deliver to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; And the years of thy life shall be many. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in paths of uprightness. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; And if thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: Keep her; for she is thy life. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Enter not into the path of the wicked, And walk not in the way of evil men. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Avoid it, pass not by it; Turn from it, and pass on. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For they sleep not, except they do evil; And their sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For they eat the bread of wickedness, And drink the wine of violence. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the path of the righteous is as the dawning light, That shineth more and more unto the perfect day. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the wicked is as darkness: They know not at what they stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, attend to my words; Incline thine ear unto my sayings. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let them not depart from thine eyes; Keep them in the midst of thy heart. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For they are life unto those that find them, And health to all their flesh. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Keep thy heart with all diligence; For out of it are the issues of life. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Put away from thee a wayward mouth, And perverse lips put far from thee. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let thine eyes look right on, And let thine eyelids look straight before thee. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Make level the path of thy feet, And let all thy ways be established. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: Remove thy foot from evil.</p>

</body>
</html>