<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be not thou envious against evil men; Neither desire to be with them: <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For their heart studieth oppression, And their lips talk of mischief. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Through wisdom is a house builded; And by understanding it is established; <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And by knowledge are the chambers filled With all precious and pleasant riches. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A wise man is strong; Yea, a man of knowledge increaseth might <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For by wise guidance thou shalt make thy war; And in the multitude of counsellors there is safety. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wisdom is too high for a fool: He openeth not his mouth in the gate. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He that deviseth to do evil, Men shall call him a mischief-maker. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The thought of foolishness is sin; And the scoffer is an abomination to men. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If thou faint in the day of adversity, Thy strength is small. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Deliver them that are carried away unto death, And those that are ready to be slain see that thou hold back. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thou sayest, Behold, we knew not this; Doth not he that weigheth the hearts consider it? And he that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? And shall not he render to every man according to his work? <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> My son, eat thou honey, for it is good; And the droppings of the honeycomb, which are sweet to thy taste: <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So shalt thou know wisdom to be unto thy soul; If thou hast found it, then shall there be a reward, And thy hope shall not be cut off. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lay not wait, O wicked man, against the habitation of the righteous; Destroy not his resting-place: <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For a righteous man falleth seven times, and riseth up again; But the wicked are overthrown by calamity. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, And let not thy heart be glad when he is overthrown; <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lest Jehovah see it, and it displease him, And he turn away his wrath from him. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Fret not thyself because of evil-doers; Neither be thou envious at the wicked: <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For there shall be no reward to the evil man; The lamp of the wicked shall be put out. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son, fear thou Jehovah and the king; And company not with them that are given to change: <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For their calamity shall rise suddenly; And the destruction from them both, who knoweth it?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> These also are sayings of the wise.</p>

<p>To have respect of persons in judgment is not good. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He that saith unto the wicked, Thou art righteous; Peoples shall curse him, nations shall abhor him: <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But to them that rebuke him shall be delight, And a good blessing shall come upon them. <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He kisseth the lips Who giveth a right answer. <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Prepare thy work without, And make it ready for thee in the field; And afterwards build thy house. <a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Be not a witness against thy neighbor without cause; And deceive not with thy lips. <a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me; I will render to the man according to his work. <a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I went by the field of the sluggard, And by the vineyard of the man void of understanding; <a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And, lo, it was all grown over with thorns, The face thereof was covered with nettles, And the stone wall thereof was broken down. <a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then I beheld, and considered well; I saw, and received instruction: <a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, A little folding of the hands to sleep; <a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> So shall thy poverty come as a robber, And thy want as an armed man.</p>

</body>
</html>