<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh that thou wert as my brother, That sucked the breasts of my mother! When I should find thee without, I would kiss thee; Yea, and none would despise me. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I would lead thee, and bring thee into my mother’s house, Who would instruct me; I would cause thee to drink of spiced wine, Of the juice of my pomegranate. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His left hand should be under my head, And his right hand should embrace me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, That ye stir not up, nor awake my love, Until he please.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, Leaning upon her beloved?</p>

<p>Under the apple-tree I awakened thee: There thy mother was in travail with thee, There was she in travail that brought thee forth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Set me as a seal upon thy heart, As a seal upon thine arm: For love is strong as death; Jealousy is cruel as Sheol; The flashes thereof are flashes of fire, A very flame of Jehovah. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Many waters cannot quench love, Neither can floods drown it: If a man would give all the substance of his house for love, He would utterly be contemned.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> We have a little sister, And she hath no breasts: What shall we do for our sister In the day when she shall be spoken for?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If she be a wall, We will build upon her a turret of silver: And if she be a door, We will inclose her with boards of cedar.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I am a wall, and my breasts like the towers thereof Then was I in his eyes as one that found peace. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Solomon had a vineyard at Baal-hamon; He let out the vineyard unto keepers; Every one for the fruit thereof was to bring a thousand pieces of silver. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My vineyard, which is mine, is before me: Thou, O Solomon, shalt have the thousand, And those that keep the fruit thereof two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou that dwellest in the gardens, The companions hearken for thy voice: Cause me to hear it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Make haste, my beloved, And be thou like to a roe or to a young hart Upon the mountains of spices.</p>

</body>
</html>