<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am a rose of Sharon, A lily of the valleys.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As a lily among thorns, So is my love among the daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As the apple-tree among the trees of the wood, So is my beloved among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, And his fruit was sweet to my taste. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He brought me to the banqueting-house, And his banner over me was love. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Stay ye me with raisins, refresh me with apples; For I am sick from love. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His left hand is under my head, And his right hand doth embrace me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, By the roes, or by the hinds of the field, That ye stir not up, nor awake my love, Until he please.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The voice of my beloved! behold, he cometh, Leaping upon the mountains, Skipping upon the hills. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My beloved is like a roe or a young hart: Behold, he standeth behind our wall; He looketh in at the windows; He glanceth through the lattice.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My beloved spake, and said unto me, Rise up, my love, my fair one, and come away. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For, lo, the winter is past; The rain is over and gone; <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The flowers appear on the earth; The time of the singing of birds is come, And the voice of the turtle-dove is heard in our land; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fig-tree ripeneth her green figs, And the vines are in blossom; They give forth their fragrance. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> O my dove, that art in the clefts of the rock, In the covert of the steep place, Let me see thy countenance, Let me hear thy voice; For sweet is thy voice, and thy countenance is comely.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Take us the foxes, the little foxes, That spoil the vineyards; For our vineyards are in blossom. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My beloved is mine, and I am his: He feedeth his flock among the lilies. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Until the day be cool, and the shadows flee away, Turn, my beloved, and be thou like a roe or a young hart Upon the mountains of Bether.</p>

</body>
</html>