<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whither is thy beloved gone, O thou fairest among women? Whither hath thy beloved turned him, That we may seek him with thee?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My beloved is gone down to his garden, To the beds of spices, To feed in the gardens, and to gather lilies. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I am my beloved’s, and my beloved is mine; He feedeth his flock among the lilies,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou art fair, O my love, as Tirzah, Comely as Jerusalem, Terrible as an army with banners. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Turn away thine eyes from me, For they have overcome me. Thy hair is as a flock of goats, That lie along the side of Gilead. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy teeth are like a flock of ewes, Which are come up from the washing; Whereof every one hath twins, And none is bereaved among them. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thy temples are like a piece of a pomegranate Behind thy veil. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There are threescore queens, and fourscore concubines, And virgins without number. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My dove, my undefiled, is but one; She is the only one of her mother; She is the choice one of her that bare her. The daughters saw her, and called her blessed; Yea, the queens and the concubines, and they praised her.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, Fair as the moon, Clear as the sun, Terrible as an army with banners?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I went down into the garden of nuts, To see the green plants of the valley, To see whether the vine budded, And the pomegranates were in flower. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Before I was aware, my soul set me Among the chariots of my princely people.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Return, return, O Shulammite; Return, return, that we may look upon thee. Why will ye look upon the Shulammite, As upon the dance of Mahanaim?</p>

</body>
</html>