<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am come into my garden, my sister, my bride: I have gathered my myrrh with my spice; I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have drunk my wine with my milk. Eat, O friends; Drink, yea, drink abundantly, O beloved.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I was asleep, but my heart waked: It is the voice of my beloved that knocketh, saying, Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my undefiled; For my head is filled with dew, My locks with the drops of the night. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have put off my garment; how shall I put it on? I have washed my feet; how shall I defile them? <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My beloved put in his hand by the hole of the door, And my heart was moved for him. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I rose up to open to my beloved; And my hands droppeth with myrrh, And my fingers with liquid myrrh, Upon the handles of the bolt. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I opened to my beloved; But my beloved had withdrawn himself, and was gone. My soul had failed me when he spake: I sought him, but I could not find him; I called him, but he gave me no answer. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The watchmen that go about the city found me, They smote me, they wounded me; The keepers of the walls took away my mantle from me. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, If ye find my beloved, That ye tell him, that I am sick from love.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What is thy beloved more than another beloved, O thou fairest among women? What is thy beloved more than another beloved, That thou dost so adjure us?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My beloved is white and ruddy, The chiefest among ten thousand. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His head is as the most fine gold; His locks are bushy, and black as a raven. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His eyes are like doves beside the water-brooks, Washed with milk, and fitly set. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His cheeks are as a bed of spices, As banks of sweet herbs: His lips are as lilies, dropping liquid myrrh. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His hands are as rings of gold set with beryl: His body is as ivory work overlaid with sapphires. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> His legs are as pillars of marble, set upon sockets of fine gold: His aspect is like Lebanon, excellent as the cedars. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His mouth is most sweet; Yea, he is altogether lovely. This is my beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.</p>

</body>
</html>