<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By night on my bed I sought him whom my soul loveth: I sought him, but I found him not. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I said, I will rise now, and go about the city; In the streets and in the broad ways I will seek him whom my soul loveth: I sought him, but I found him not. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The watchmen that go about the city found me; To whom I said, Saw ye him whom my soul loveth? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> It was but a little that I passed from them, When I found him whom my soul loveth: I held him, and would not let him go, Until I had brought him into my mother’s house, And into the chamber of her that conceived me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, By the roes, or by the hinds of the field, That ye stir not up, nor awake my love, Until he please.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness Like pillars of smoke, Perfumed with myrrh and frankincense, With all powders of the merchant? <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, it is the litter of Solomon; Threescore mighty men are about it, Of the mighty men of Israel. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They all handle the sword, and are expert in war: Every man hath his sword upon his thigh, Because of fear in the night. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> King Solomon made himself a palanquin Of the wood of Lebanon. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He made the pillars thereof of silver, The bottom thereof of gold, the seat of it of purple, The midst thereof being paved with love, From the daughters of Jerusalem. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Go forth, O ye daughters of Zion, and behold king Solomon, With the crown wherewith his mother hath crowned him In the day of his espousals, And in the day of the gladness of his heart.</p>

</body>
</html>