<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 65</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 65</h2>

<p><a id="c65_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am inquired of by them that asked not for me; I am found of them that sought me not: I said, Behold me, behold me, unto a nation that was not called by my name. <a id="c65_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have spread out my hands all the day unto a rebellious people, that walk in a way that is not good, after their own thoughts; <a id="c65_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> a people that provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens, and burning incense upon bricks; <a id="c65_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> that sit among the graves, and lodge in the secret places; that eat swine’s flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels; <a id="c65_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me, for I am holier than thou. These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burneth all the day. <a id="c65_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, it is written before me: I will not keep silence, but will recompense, yea, I will recompense into their bosom, <a id="c65_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> your own iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together, saith Jehovah, that have burned incense upon the mountains, and blasphemed me upon the hills; therefore will I first measure their work into their bosom. <a id="c65_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thus saith Jehovah, As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one saith, Destroy it not, for a blessing is in it: so will I do for my servants’ sake, that I may not destroy them all. <a id="c65_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains; and my chosen shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there. <a id="c65_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down in, for my people that have sought me. <a id="c65_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But ye that forsake Jehovah, that forget my holy mountain, that prepare a table for Fortune, and that fill up mingled wine unto Destiny; <a id="c65_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will destine you to the sword, and ye shall all bow down to the slaughter; because when I called, ye did not answer; when I spake, ye did not hear; but ye did that which was evil in mine eyes, and chose that wherein I delighted not. <a id="c65_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah, Behold, my servants shall eat, but ye shall be hungry; behold, my servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty; behold, my servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be put to shame; <a id="c65_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ye shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall wail for vexation of spirit. <a id="c65_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And ye shall leave your name for a curse unto my chosen; and the Lord Jehovah will slay thee; and he will call his servants by another name: <a id="c65_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> so that he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he that sweareth in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because they are hid from mine eyes. <a id="c65_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth; and the former things shall not be remembered, nor come into mind. <a id="c65_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But be ye glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create; for, behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy. <a id="c65_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people; and there shall be heard in her no more the voice of weeping and the voice of crying. <a id="c65_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days; for the child shall die a hundred years old, and the sinner being a hundred years old shall be accursed. <a id="c65_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them. <a id="c65_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree shall be the days of my people, and my chosen shall long enjoy the work of their hands. <a id="c65_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They shall not labor in vain, nor bring forth for calamity; for they are the seed of the blessed of Jehovah, and their offspring with them. <a id="c65_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it shall come to pass that, before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear. <a id="c65_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the ox; and dust shall be the serpent’s food. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, saith Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>