<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 64</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 64</h2>

<p><a id="c64_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that thou wouldest come down, that the mountains might quake at thy presence, <a id="c64_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> as when fire kindleth the brushwood, and the fire causeth the waters to boil; to make thy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations may tremble at thy presence! <a id="c64_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When thou didst terrible things which we looked not for, thou camest down, the mountains quaked at thy presence. <a id="c64_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For from of old men have not heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen a God besides thee, who worketh for him that waiteth for him. <a id="c64_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways: behold, thou wast wroth, and we sinned: in them have we been of long time; and shall we be saved? <a id="c64_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For we are all become as one that is unclean, and all our righteousnesses are as a polluted garment: and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away. <a id="c64_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And there is none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee; for thou hast hid thy face from us, and hast consumed us by means of our iniquities. <a id="c64_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But now, O Jehovah, thou art our Father; we are the clay, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand. <a id="c64_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be not wroth very sore, O Jehovah, neither remember iniquity for ever: behold, look, we beseech thee, we are all thy people. <a id="c64_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy holy cities are become a wilderness, Zion is become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation. <a id="c64_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praised thee, is burned with fire; and all our pleasant places are laid waste. <a id="c64_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wilt thou refrain thyself for these things, O Jehovah? wilt thou hold thy peace, and afflict us very sore?</p>

</body>
</html>