<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah: we have a strong city; salvation will he appoint for walls and bulwarks. <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth faith may enter in. <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee; because he trusteth in thee. <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Trust ye in Jehovah for ever; for in Jehovah, even Jehovah, is an everlasting rock. <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he hath brought down them that dwell on high, the lofty city: he layeth it low, he layeth it low even to the ground; he bringeth it even to the dust. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The foot shall tread it down; even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The way of the just is uprightness: thou that art upright dost direct the path of the just. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O Jehovah, have we waited for thee; to thy name, even to thy memorial name, is the desire of our soul. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee earnestly: for when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let favor be showed to the wicked, yet will he not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness will he deal wrongfully, and will not behold the majesty of Jehovah. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah, thy hand is lifted up, yet they see not: but they shall see thy zeal for the people, and be put to shame; yea, fire shall devour thine adversaries. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jehovah, thou wilt ordain peace for us; for thou hast also wrought all our works for us. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O Jehovah our God, other lords besides thee have had dominion over us; but by thee only will we make mention of thy name. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They are dead, they shall not live; they are deceased, they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all remembrance of them to perish. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou hast increased the nation, O Jehovah, thou hast increased the nation; thou art glorified; thou hast enlarged all the borders of the land. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jehovah, in trouble have they visited thee; they poured out a prayer when thy chastening was upon them. <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain and crieth out in her pangs; so we have been before thee, O Jehovah. <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy dead shall live; my dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in the dust; for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast forth the dead. <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For, behold, Jehovah cometh forth out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.</p>

</body>
</html>