<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Moab. For in a night Ar of Moab is laid waste, and brought to nought; for in a night Kir of Moab is laid waste, and brought to nought. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They are gone up to Bayith, and to Dibon, to the high places, to weep: Moab waileth over Nebo, and over Medeba; on all their heads is baldness, every beard is cut off. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In their streets they gird themselves with sackcloth; on their housetops, and in their broad places, every one waileth, weeping abundantly. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Heshbon crieth out, and Elealeh; their voice is heard even unto Jahaz: therefore the armed men of Moab cry aloud; his soul trembleth within him. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My heart crieth out for Moab; her nobles flee unto Zoar, to Eglath-shelishi-yah: for by the ascent of Luhith with weeping they go up; for in the way of Horonaim they raise up a cry of destruction. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate; for the grass is withered away, the tender grass faileth, there is no green thing. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore the abundance they have gotten, and that which they have laid up, shall they carry away over the brook of the willows. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the cry is gone round about the borders of Moab; the wailing thereof unto Eglaim, and the wailing thereof unto Beer-elim. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the waters of Dimon are full of blood; for I will bring yet more upon Dimon, a lion upon them of Moab that escape, and upon the remnant of the land.</p>

</body>
</html>