<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For, behold, the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah stay and staff, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> the mighty man, and the man of war; the judge, and the prophet, and the diviner, and the elder; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the captain of fifty, and the honorable man, and the counsellor, and the expert artificer, and the skilful enchanter. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will give children to be their princes, and babes shall rule over them. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbor: the child shall behave himself proudly against the old man, and the base against the honorable. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When a man shall take hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying, Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and let this ruin be under thy hand; <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> in that day shall he lift up his voice, saying, I will not be a healer; for in my house is neither bread nor clothing: ye shall not make me ruler of the people. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen; because their tongue and their doings are against Jehovah, to provoke the eyes of his glory. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The show of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! for they have done evil unto themselves. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say ye of the righteous, that it shall be well with him; for they shall eat the fruit of their doings. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Woe unto the wicked! it shall be ill with him; for what his hands have done shall be done unto him. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, they that lead thee cause thee to err, and destroy the way of thy paths. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jehovah standeth up to contend, and standeth to judge the peoples. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah will enter into judgment with the elders of his people, and the princes thereof: It is ye that have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your houses: <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> what mean ye that ye crush my people, and grind the face of the poor? saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover Jehovah said, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with outstretched necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet; <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and Jehovah will lay bare their secret parts. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day the Lord will take away the beauty of their anklets, and the cauls, and the crescents; <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> the pendants, and the bracelets, and the mufflers; <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> the headtires, and the ankle chains, and the sashes, and the perfume-boxes, and the amulets; <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> the rings, and the nose-jewels; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> the festival robes, and the mantles, and the shawls, and the satchels; <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> the hand-mirrors, and the fine linen, and the turbans, and the veils. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet spices there shall be rottenness; and instead of a girdle, a rope; and instead of well set hair, baldness; and instead of a robe, a girding of sackcloth; branding instead of beauty. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she shall be desolate and sit upon the ground.</p>

</body>
</html>