<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the wilderness of the sea. As whirlwinds in the South sweep through, it cometh from the wilderness, from a terrible land. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A grievous vision is declared unto me; the treacherous man dealeth treacherously, and the destroyer destroyeth. Go up, O Elam; besiege, O Media; all the sighing thereof have I made to cease. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore are my loins filled with anguish; pangs have taken hold upon me, as the pangs of a woman in travail: I am pained so that I cannot hear; I am dismayed so that I cannot see. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart fluttereth, horror hath affrighted me; the twilight that I desired hath been turned into trembling unto me. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They prepare the table, they set the watch, they eat, they drink: rise up, ye princes, anoint the shield. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus hath the Lord said unto me, Go, set a watchman: let him declare what he seeth: <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and when he seeth a troop, horsemen in pairs, a troop of asses, a troop of camels, he shall hearken diligently with much heed. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he cried as a lion: O Lord, I stand continually upon the watch-tower in the day-time, and am set in my ward whole nights; <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and, behold, here cometh a troop of men, horsemen in pairs. And he answered and said, Fallen, fallen is Babylon; and all the graven images of her gods are broken unto the ground. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O thou my threshing, and the grain of my floor! that which I have heard from Jehovah of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared unto you. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The burden of Dumah. One calleth unto me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will inquire, inquire ye: turn ye, come. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The burden upon Arabia. In the forest in Arabia shall ye lodge, O ye caravans of Dedanites. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Unto him that was thirsty they brought water; the inhabitants of the land of Tema did meet the fugitives with their bread. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For they fled away from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For thus hath the Lord said unto me, Within a year, according to the years of a hireling, all the glory of Kedar shall fail; <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the residue of the number of the archers, the mighty men of the children of Kedar, shall be few; for Jehovah, the God of Israel, hath spoken it.</p>

</body>
</html>