<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 61</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 61</h2>

<p><a id="c61_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Spirit of the Lord Jehovah is upon me; because Jehovah hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound; <a id="c61_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to proclaim the year of Jehovah’s favor, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn; <a id="c61_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> to appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them a garland for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they may be called trees of righteousness, the planting of Jehovah, that he may be glorified. <a id="c61_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations. <a id="c61_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and foreigners shall be your plowmen and your vine-dressers. <a id="c61_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But ye shall be named the priests of Jehovah; men shall call you the ministers of our God: ye shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory shall ye boast yourselves. <a id="c61_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Instead of your shame ye shall have double; and instead of dishonor they shall rejoice in their portion: therefore in their land they shall possess double; everlasting joy shall be unto them. <a id="c61_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I, Jehovah, love justice, I hate robbery with iniquity; and I will give them their recompense in truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. <a id="c61_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And their seed shall be known among the nations, and their offspring among the peoples; all that see them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed which Jehovah hath blessed. <a id="c61_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will greatly rejoice in Jehovah, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with a garland, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. <a id="c61_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For as the earth bringeth forth its bud, and as the garden causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord Jehovah will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.</p>

</body>
</html>