<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 43</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 43</h2>

<p><a id="c43_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But now thus saith Jehovah that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed thee; I have called thee by thy name, thou art mine. <a id="c43_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. <a id="c43_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I am Jehovah thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour; I have given Egypt as thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba in thy stead. <a id="c43_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Since thou hast been precious in my sight, and honorable, and I have loved thee; therefore will I give men in thy stead, and peoples instead of thy life. <a id="c43_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Fear not; for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west; <a id="c43_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Keep not back; bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the end of the earth; <a id="c43_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> every one that is called by my name, and whom I have created for my glory, whom I have formed, yea, whom I have made. <a id="c43_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears. <a id="c43_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the peoples be assembled: who among them can declare this, and show us former things? let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified; or let them hear, and say, It is truth. <a id="c43_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah, and my servant whom I have chosen; that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me. <a id="c43_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I, even I, am Jehovah; and besides me there is no saviour. <a id="c43_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have declared, and I have saved, and I have showed; and there was no strange god among you: therefore ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah, and I am God. <a id="c43_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yea, since the day was I am he; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who can hinder it? <a id="c43_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thus saith Jehovah, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and I will bring down all of them as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their rejoicing. <a id="c43_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I am Jehovah, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King. <a id="c43_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus saith Jehovah, who maketh a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters; <a id="c43_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> who bringeth forth the chariot and horse, the army and the mighty man (they lie down together, they shall not rise; they are extinct, they are quenched as a wick): <a id="c43_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old. <a id="c43_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, I will do a new thing; now shall it spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert. <a id="c43_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The beasts of the field shall honor me, the jackals and the ostriches; because I give waters in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert, to give drink to my people, my chosen, <a id="c43_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> the people which I formed for myself, that they might set forth my praise. <a id="c43_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yet thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob; but thou hast been weary of me, O Israel. <a id="c43_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thou hast not brought me of thy sheep for burnt-offerings; neither hast thou honored me with thy sacrifices. I have not burdened thee with offerings, nor wearied thee with frankincense. <a id="c43_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices; but thou hast burdened me with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities. <a id="c43_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake; and I will not remember thy sins. <a id="c43_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Put me in remembrance; let us plead together: set thou forth thy cause, that thou mayest be justified. <a id="c43_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thy first father sinned, and thy teachers have transgressed against me. <a id="c43_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary; and I will make Jacob a curse, and Israel a reviling.</p>

</body>
</html>