<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 46</h2>

<p><a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bel boweth down, Nebo stoopeth; their idols are upon the beasts, and upon the cattle: the things that ye carried about are made a load, a burden to the weary beast. <a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They stoop, they bow down together; they could not deliver the burden, but themselves are gone into captivity. <a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Hearken unto me, O house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the house of Israel, that have been borne by me from their birth, that have been carried from the womb; <a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and even to old age I am he, and even to hoar hairs will I carry you; I have made, and I will bear; yea, I will carry, and will deliver. <a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To whom will ye like me, and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be like? <a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Such as lavish gold out of the bag, and weigh silver in the balance, they hire a goldsmith, and he maketh it a god; they fall down, yea, they worship. <a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They bear it upon the shoulder, they carry it, and set it in its place, and it standeth, from its place shall it not remove: yea, one may cry unto it, yet can it not answer, nor save him out of his trouble. <a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remember this, and show yourselves men; bring it again to mind, O ye transgressors. <a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember the former things of old: for I am God, and there is none else; I am God, and there is none like me; <a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times things that are not yet done; saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure; <a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> calling a ravenous bird from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country; yea, I have spoken, I will also bring it to pass; I have purposed, I will also do it. <a id="c46_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hearken unto me, ye stout-hearted, that are far from righteousness: <a id="c46_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I bring near my righteousness, it shall not be far off, and my salvation shall not tarry; and I will place salvation in Zion for Israel my glory.</p>

</body>
</html>