<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day Jehovah with his hard and great and strong sword will punish leviathan the swift serpent, and leviathan the crooked serpent; and he will slay the monster that is in the sea. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In that day: A vineyard of wine, sing ye unto it. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I Jehovah am its keeper; I will water it every moment: lest any hurt it, I will keep it night and day. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wrath is not in me: would that the briers and thorns were against me in battle! I would march upon them, I would burn them together. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or else let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me; yea, let him make peace with me. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In days to come shall Jacob take root; Israel shall blossom and bud; and they shall fill the face of the world with fruit. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hath he smitten them as he smote those that smote them? or are they slain according to the slaughter of them that were slain by them? <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In measure, when thou sendest them away, thou dost contend with them; he hath removed them with his rough blast in the day of the east wind. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore by this shall the iniquity of Jacob be forgiven, and this is all the fruit of taking away his sin: that he maketh all the stones of the altar as chalkstones that are beaten in sunder, so that the Asherim and the sun-images shall rise no more. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken, like the wilderness: there shall the calf feed, and there shall he lie down, and consume the branches thereof. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When the boughs thereof are withered, they shall be broken off; the women shall come, and set them on fire; for it is a people of no understanding: therefore he that made them will not have compassion upon them, and he that formed them will show them no favor. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, that Jehovah will beat off his fruit from the flood of the River unto the brook of Egypt; and ye shall be gathered one by one, O ye children of Israel. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, that a great trumpet shall be blown; and they shall come that were ready to perish in the land of Assyria, and they that were outcasts in the land of Egypt; and they shall worship Jehovah in the holy mountain at Jerusalem.</p>

</body>
</html>