<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thou also, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it before thee, and portray upon it a city, even Jerusalem: <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and lay siege against it, and build forts against it, and cast up a mound against it; set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it round about. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And take thou unto thee an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between thee and the city: and set thy face toward it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Moreover lie thou upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel upon it; according to the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon it, thou shalt bear their iniquity. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I have appointed the years of their iniquity to be unto thee a number of days, even three hundred and ninety days: so shalt thou bear the iniquity of the house of Israel. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And again, when thou hast accomplished these, thou shalt lie on thy right side, and shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah: forty days, each day for a year, have I appointed it unto thee. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou shalt set thy face toward the siege of Jerusalem, with thine arm uncovered; and thou shalt prophesy against it. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And, behold, I lay bands upon thee, and thou shalt not turn thee from one side to the other, till thou hast accomplished the days of thy siege. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Take thou also unto thee wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and make thee bread thereof; according to the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon thy side, even three hundred and ninety days, shalt thou eat thereof. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And thy food which thou shalt eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time shalt thou eat it. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thou shalt drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin: from time to time shalt thou drink. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou shalt eat it as barley cakes, and thou shalt bake it in their sight with dung that cometh out of man. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jehovah said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations whither I will drive them. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then said I, Ah Lord Jehovah! behold, my soul hath not been polluted; for from my youth up even till now have I not eaten of that which dieth of itself, or is torn of beasts; neither came there abominable flesh into my mouth. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then he said unto me, See, I have given thee cow’s dung for man’s dung, and thou shalt prepare thy bread thereon. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and with fearfulness; and they shall drink water by measure, and in dismay: <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> that they may want bread and water, and be dismayed one with another, and pine away in their iniquity.</p>

</body>
</html>