<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the tenth year, in the tenth month, in the twelfth day of the month, the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against all Egypt; <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great monster that lieth in the midst of his rivers, that hath said, My river is mine own, and I have made it for myself. <a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of thy rivers to stick unto thy scales; and I will bring thee up out of the midst of thy rivers, with all the fish of thy rivers which stick unto thy scales. <a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will cast thee forth into the wilderness, thee and all the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the open field; thou shalt not be brought together, nor gathered; I have given thee for food to the beasts of the earth and to the birds of the heavens. <a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am Jehovah, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel. <a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou didst break, and didst rend all their shoulders; and when they leaned upon thee, thou brakest, and madest all their loins to be at a stand. <a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will bring a sword upon thee, and will cut off from thee man and beast. <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste; and they shall know that I am Jehovah. Because he hath said, The river is mine, and I have made it; <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> therefore, behold, I am against thee, and against thy rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from the tower of Seveneh even unto the border of Ethiopia. <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years. <a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be a desolation forty years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries. <a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the peoples whither they were scattered; <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and I will bring back the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their birth; and they shall be there a base kingdom. <a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It shall be the basest of the kingdoms; neither shall it any more lift itself up above the nations: and I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations. <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing iniquity to remembrance, when they turn to look after them: and they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in the first month, in the first day of the month, the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon caused his army to serve a great service against Tyre: every head was made bald, and every shoulder was worn; yet had he no wages, nor his army, from Tyre, for the service that he had served against it. <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he shall carry off her multitude, and take her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army. <a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have given him the land of Egypt as his recompense for which he served, because they wrought for me, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In that day will I cause a horn to bud forth unto the house of Israel, and I will give thee the opening of the mouth in the midst of them; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>