<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me unto the east gate of Jehovah’s house, which looketh eastward: and behold, at the door of the gate five and twenty men; and I saw in the midst of them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said unto me, Son of man, these are the men that devise iniquity, and that give wicked counsel in this city; <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> that say, The time is not near to build houses: this city is the caldron, and we are the flesh. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Spirit of Jehovah fell upon me, and he said unto me, Speak, Thus saith Jehovah: Thus have ye said, O house of Israel; for I know the things that come into your mind. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye have filled the streets thereof with the slain. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Your slain whom ye have laid in the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this city is the caldron; but ye shall be brought forth out of the midst of it. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ye have feared the sword; and I will bring the sword upon you, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will bring you forth out of the midst thereof, and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border of Israel; and ye shall know that I am Jehovah. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This city shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be the flesh in the midst thereof; I will judge you in the border of Israel; <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and ye shall know that I am Jehovah: for ye have not walked in my statutes, neither have ye executed mine ordinances, but have done after the ordinances of the nations that are round about you. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then fell I down upon my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, Ah Lord Jehovah! wilt thou make a full end of the remnant of Israel? <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Son of man, thy brethren, even thy brethren, the men of thy kindred, and all the house of Israel, all of them, are they unto whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far from Jehovah; unto us is this land given for a possession. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Whereas I have removed them far off among the nations, and whereas I have scattered them among the countries, yet will I be to them a sanctuary for a little while in the countries where they are come. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they shall come thither, and they shall take away all the detestable things thereof and all the abominations thereof from thence. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh; <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> that they may walk in my statutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But as for them whose heart walketh after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their way upon their own heads, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then did the cherubim lift up their wings, and the wheels were beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the glory of Jehovah went up from the midst of the city, and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from me. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then I spake unto them of the captivity all the things that Jehovah had showed me.</p>

</body>
</html>