<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of Jehovah came again unto me, saying, <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Wail ye, Alas for the day! <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the day is near, even the day of Jehovah is near; it shall be a day of clouds, a time of the nations. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And a sword shall come upon Egypt, and anguish shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt; and they shall take away her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ethiopia, and Put, and Lud, and all the mingled people, and Cub, and the children of the land that is in league, shall fall with them by the sword. <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus saith Jehovah: They also that uphold Egypt shall fall; and the pride of her power shall come down: from the tower of Seveneh shall they fall in it by the sword, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that are desolate; and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are wasted. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they shall know at I am Jehovah, when I have set a fire in Egypt, and all her helpers are destroyed. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In that day shall messengers go forth from before me in ships to make the careless Ethiopians afraid; and there shall be anguish upon them, as in the day of Egypt; for, lo, it cometh. <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease, by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shall be brought in to destroy the land; and they shall draw their swords against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain. <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will make the rivers dry, and will sell the land into the hand of evil men; and I will make the land desolate, and all that is therein, by the hand of strangers: I, Jehovah, have spoken it. <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will also destroy the idols, and I will cause the images to cease from Memphis; and there shall be no more a prince from the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt. <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set a fire in Zoan, and will execute judgments upon No. <a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will pour my wrath upon Sin, the stronghold of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude of No. <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will set a fire in Egypt: Sin shall be in great anguish, and No shall be broken up; and Memphis shall have adversaries in the day-time. <a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword; and these cities shall go into captivity. <a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> At Tehaphnehes also the day shall withdraw itself, when I shall break there the yokes of Egypt, and the pride of her power shall cease in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall go into captivity. <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thus will I execute judgments upon Egypt; and they shall know that I am Jehovah. <a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first month, in the seventh day of the month, that the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and, lo, it hath not been bound up, to apply healing medicines, to put a bandage to bind it, that it be strong to hold the sword. <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong arm, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand. <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries. <a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand: but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded man. <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I will hold up the arms of the king of Babylon; and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt. <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them through the countries; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>