<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the third month, in the first day of the month, that the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, say unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to his multitude: Whom art thou like in thy greatness? <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, the Assyrian was a cedar in Lebanon with fair branches, and with a forest-like shade, and of high stature; and its top was among the thick boughs. <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The waters nourished it, the deep made it to grow: the rivers thereof ran round about its plantation; and it sent out its channels unto all the trees of the field. <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore its stature was exalted above all the trees of the field; and its boughs were multiplied, and its branches became long by reason of many waters, when it shot them forth. <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All the birds of the heavens made their nests in its boughs; and under its branches did all the beasts of the field bring forth their young; and under its shadow dwelt all great nations. <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus was it fair in its greatness, in the length of its branches; for its root was by many waters. <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The cedars in the garden of God could not hide it; the fir-trees were not like its boughs, and the plane-trees were not as its branches; nor was any tree in the garden of God like unto it in its beauty. <a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I made it fair by the multitude of its branches, so that all the trees of Eden, that were in the garden of God, envied it. <a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because thou art exalted in stature, and he hath set his top among the thick boughs, and his heart is lifted up in his height; <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will even deliver him into the hand of the mighty one of the nations; he shall surely deal with him; I have driven him out for his wickedness. <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And strangers, the terrible of the nations, have cut him off, and have left him: upon the mountains and in all the valleys his branches are fallen, and his boughs are broken by all the watercourses of the land; and all the peoples of the earth are gone down from his shadow, and have left him. <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Upon his ruin all the birds of the heavens shall dwell, and all the beasts of the field shall be upon his branches; <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> to the end that none of all the trees by the waters exalt themselves in their stature, neither set their top among the thick boughs, nor that their mighty ones stand up on their height, even all that drink water: for they are all delivered unto death, to the nether parts of the earth, in the midst of the children of men, with them that go down to the pit. <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: In the day when he went down to Sheol I caused a mourning: I covered the deep for him, and I restrained the rivers thereof; and the great waters were stayed; and I caused Lebanon to mourn for him, and all the trees of the field fainted for him. <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I made the nations to shake at the sound of his fall, when I cast him down to Sheol with them that descend into the pit; and all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water, were comforted in the nether parts of the earth. <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They also went down into Sheol with him unto them that are slain by the sword; yea, they that were his arm, that dwelt under his shadow in the midst of the nations. <a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To whom art thou thus like in glory and in greatness among the trees of Eden? yet shalt thou be brought down with the trees of Eden unto the nether parts of the earth: thou shalt lie in the midst of the uncircumcised, with them that are slain by the sword. This is Pharaoh and all his multitude, saith the Lord Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>