<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar a vision appeared unto me, even unto me, Daniel, after that which appeared unto me at the first. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I saw in the vision; now it was so, that when I saw, I was in Shushan the palace, which is in the province of Elam; and I saw in the vision, and I was by the river Ulai. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there stood before the river a ram which had two horns: and the two horns were high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; and no beasts could stand before him, neither was there any that could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, and magnified himself. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And as I was considering, behold, a he-goat came from the west over the face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground: and the goat had a notable horn between his eyes. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he came to the ram that had the two horns, which I saw standing before the river, and ran upon him in the fury of his power. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved with anger against him, and smote the ram, and brake his two horns; and there was no power in the ram to stand before him; but he cast him down to the ground, and trampled upon him; and there was none that could deliver the ram out of his hand. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the he-goat magnified himself exceedingly: and when he was strong, the great horn was broken; and instead of it there came up four notable horns toward the four winds of heaven. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which waxed exceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the glorious land. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And it waxed great, even to the host of heaven; and some of the host and of the stars it cast down to the ground, and trampled upon them. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yea, it magnified itself, even to the prince of the host; and it took away from him the continual burnt-offering, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the host was given over to it together with the continual burnt-offering through transgression; and it cast down truth to the ground, and it did its pleasure and prospered. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then I heard a holy one speaking; and another holy one said unto that certain one who spake, How long shall be the vision <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he said unto me, Unto two thousand and three hundred evenings and mornings; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass, when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision, that I sought to understand it; and, behold, there stood before me as the appearance of a man. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I heard a man’s voice between the banks of the Ulai, which called, and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So he came near where I stood; and when he came, I was affrighted, and fell upon my face: but he said unto me, Understand, O son of man; for the vision belongeth to the time of the end. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now as he was speaking with me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face toward the ground; but he touched me, and set me upright. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said, Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in the latter time of the indignation; for it belongeth to the appointed time of the end. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The ram which thou sawest, that had the two horns, they are the kings of Media and Persia. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the rough he-goat is the king of Greece: and the great horn that is between his eyes is the first king. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And as for that which was broken, in the place whereof four stood up, four kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but not with his power. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And in the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors are come to the full, a king of fierce countenance, and understanding dark sentences, shall stand up. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper and do his pleasure; and he shall destroy the mighty ones and the holy people. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And through his policy he shall cause craft to prosper in his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and in their security shall he destroy many: he shall also stand up against the prince of princes; but he shall be broken without hand. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the vision of the evenings and mornings which hath been told is true: but shut thou up the vision; for it belongeth to many days to come. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I, Daniel, fainted, and was sick certain days; then I rose up, and did the king’s business: and I wondered at the vision, but none understood it.</p>

</body>
</html>