<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a thing was revealed unto Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was true, even a great warfare: and he understood the thing, and had understanding of the vision. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In those days I, Daniel, was mourning three whole weeks. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine into my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were fulfilled. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And in the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the great river, which is Hiddekel, <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and, behold, a man clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with pure gold of Uphaz: <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> his body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as flaming torches, and his arms and his feet like unto burnished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision; for the men that were with me saw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon them, and they fled to hide themselves. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and there remained no strength in me; for my comeliness was turned in me into corruption, and I retained no strength. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yet heard I the voice of his words; and when I heard the voice of his words, then was I fallen into a deep sleep on my face, with my face toward the ground. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And, behold, a hand touched me, which set me upon my knees and upon the palms of my hands. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said unto me, O Daniel, thou man greatly beloved, understand the words that I speak unto thee, and stand upright; for unto thee am I now sent. And when he had spoken this word unto me, I stood trembling. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel; for from the first day that thou didst set thy heart to understand, and to humble thyself before thy God, thy words were heard: and I am come for thy words’ sake. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me one and twenty days; but, lo, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me: and I remained there with the kings of Persia. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now I am come to make thee understand what shall befall thy people in the latter days; for the vision is yet for many days: <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and when he had spoken unto me according to these words, I set my face toward the ground, and was dumb. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And, behold, one in the likeness of the sons of men touched my lips: then I opened my mouth, and spake and said unto him that stood before me, O my lord, by reason of the vision my sorrows are turned upon me, and I retain no strength. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For how can the servant of this my lord talk with this my lord? for as for me, straightway there remained no strength in me, neither was there breath left in me. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then there touched me again one like the appearance of a man, and he strengthened me. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said, O man greatly beloved, fear not: peace be unto thee, be strong, yea, be strong. And when he spake unto me, I was strengthened, and said, Let my lord speak; for thou hast strengthened me. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then said he, Knowest thou wherefore I am come unto thee? and now will I return to fight with the prince of Persia: and when I go forth, lo, the prince of Greece shall come. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But I will tell thee that which is inscribed in the writing of truth: and there is none that holdeth with me against these, but Michael your prince.</p>

</body>
</html>