<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son out of Egypt. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The more the prophets called them, the more they went from them: they sacrificed unto the Baalim, and burned incense to graven images. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yet I taught Ephraim to walk; I took them on my arms; but they knew not that I healed them. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love; and I was to them as they that lift up the yoke on their jaws; and I laid food before them. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They shall not return into the land of Egypt; but the Assyrian shall be their king, because they refused to return to me. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the sword shall fall upon their cities, and shall consume their bars, and devour them, because of their own counsels. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And my people are bent on backsliding from me: though they call them to him that is on high, none at all will exalt <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How shall I give thee up, Ephraim? how shall I cast thee off, Israel? how shall I make thee as Admah? how shall I set thee as Zeboiim? my heart is turned within me, my compassions are kindled together. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holy One in the midst of thee; and I will not come in wrath. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They shall walk after Jehovah, who will roar like a lion; for he will roar, and the children shall come trembling from the west. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They shall come trembling as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of the land of Assyria; and I will make them to dwell in their houses, saith Jehovah. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ephraim compasseth me about with falsehood, and the house of Israel with deceit; but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the Holy One.</p>

</body>
</html>