<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Israel is a luxuriant vine, that putteth forth his fruit: according to the abundance of his fruit he hath multiplied his altars; according to the goodness of their land they have made goodly pillars. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Their heart is divided; now shall they be found guilty: he will smite their altars, he will destroy their pillars. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely now shall they say, We have no king; for we fear not Jehovah; and the king, what can he do for us? <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They speak vain words, swearing falsely in making covenants: therefore judgment springeth up as hemlock in the furrows of the field. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The inhabitants of Samaria shall be in terror for the calves of Beth-aven; for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests thereof that rejoiced over it, for the glory thereof, because it is departed from it. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> It also shall be carried unto Assyria for a present to king Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As for Samaria, her king is cut off, as foam upon the water. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they stood; the battle against the children of iniquity doth not overtake them in Gibeah. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When it is my desire, I will chastise them; and the peoples shall be gathered against them, when they are bound to their two transgressions. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Ephraim is a heifer that is taught, that loveth to tread out the grain; but I have passed over upon her fair neck: I will set a rider on Ephraim; Judah shall plow, Jacob shall break his clods. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to kindness; break up your fallow ground; for it is time to seek Jehovah, till he come and rain righteousness upon you. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have eaten the fruit of lies; for thou didst trust in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy fortresses shall be destroyed, as Shalman destroyed Beth-arbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces with her children. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So shall Beth-el do unto you because of your great wickedness: at daybreak shall the king of Israel be utterly cut off.</p>

</body>
</html>