<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When I would heal Israel, then is the iniquity of Ephraim uncovered, and the wickedness of Samaria; for they commit falsehood, and the thief entereth in, and the troop of robbers ravageth without. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they consider not in their hearts that I remember all their wickedness: now have their own doings beset them about; they are before my face. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They are all adulterers; they are as an oven heated by the baker; he ceaseth to stir the fire, from the kneading of the dough, until it be leavened. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> On the day of our king the princes made themselves sick with the heat of wine; he stretched out his hand with scoffers. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For they have made ready their heart like an oven, while they lie in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth as a flaming fire. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges; all their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim, he mixeth himself among the peoples; Ephraim is a cake not turned. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not: yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, and he knoweth <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: yet they have not returned unto Jehovah their God, nor sought him, for all this. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Ephraim is like a silly dove, without understanding: they call unto Egypt, they go to Assyria. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring them down as the birds of the heavens; I will chastise them, as their congregation hath heard. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Woe unto them! for they have wandered from me; destruction unto them! for they have trespassed against me: though I would redeem them, yet they have spoken lies against me. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they have not cried unto me with their heart, but they howl upon their beds: they assemble themselves for grain and new wine; they rebel against me. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though I have taught and strengthened their arms, yet do they devise mischief against me. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They return, but not to him that is on high; they are like a deceitful bow; their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.</p>

</body>
</html>