<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Israel, return unto Jehovah thy God; for thou hast fallen by thine iniquity. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take with you words, and return unto Jehovah: say unto him, Take away all iniquity, and accept that which is good: so will we render <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Assyria shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses; neither will we say any more to the work of our hands, Ye are our gods; for in thee the fatherless findeth mercy. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely; for mine anger is turned away from him. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will be as the dew unto Israel; he shall blossom as the lily, and cast forth his roots as Lebanon. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive-tree, and his smell as Lebanon. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They that dwell under his shadow shall return; they shall revive as the grain, and blossom as the vine: the scent thereof shall be as the wine of Lebanon. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim shall say, What have I to do any more with idols? I have answered, and will regard him: I am like a green fir-tree; from me is thy fruit found. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who is wise, that he may understand these things? prudent, that he may know them? for the ways of Jehovah are right, and the just shall walk in them; but transgressors shall fall therein.</p>

</body>
</html>