<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy, like the peoples; for thou hast played the harlot, departing from thy God; thou hast loved hire upon every grain-floor. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The threshing-floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail her. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They shall not dwell in Jehovah’s land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean food in Assyria. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They shall not pour out wine-offerings to Jehovah, neither shall they be pleasing unto him: their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted; for their bread shall be for their appetite; it shall not come into the house of Jehovah. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> What will ye do in the day of solemn assembly, and in the day of the feast of Jehovah? <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For, lo, they are gone away from destruction; yet Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them; their pleasant things of silver, nettles shall possess them; thorns shall be in their tents. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The days of visitation are come, the days of recompense are come; Israel shall know it: the prophet is a fool, the man that hath the spirit is mad, for the abundance of thine iniquity, and because the enmity is great. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim was a watchman with my God: as for the prophet, a fowler’s snare is in all his ways, and enmity in the house of his God. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah: he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their sins. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the first-ripe in the fig-tree at its first season: but they came to Baal-peor, and consecrated themselves unto the shameful thing, and became abominable like that which they loved. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird: there shall be no birth, and none with child, and no conception. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, so that not a man shall be left: yea, woe also to them when I depart from them! <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ephraim, like as I have seen Tyre, is planted in a pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring out his children to the slayer. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Give them, O Jehovah-what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I hated them: because of the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of my house; I will love them no more; all their princes are revolters. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay the beloved fruit of their womb. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto him; and they shall be wanderers among the nations.</p>

</body>
</html>