<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear this, O ye priests, and hearken, O house of Israel, and give ear, O house of the king; for unto you pertaineth the judgment; for ye have been a snare at Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the revolters are gone deep in making slaughter; but I am a rebuker of them all. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me; for now, O Ephraim, thou hast played the harlot, Israel is defiled. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their doings will not suffer them to turn unto their God; for the spirit of whoredom is within them, and they know not Jehovah. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in their iniquity; Judah also shall stumble with them. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek Jehovah; but they shall not find him: he hath withdrawn himself from them. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have dealt treacherously against Jehovah; for they have borne strange children: now shall the new moon devour them with their fields. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: sound an alarm at Beth-aven; behind thee, O Benjamin. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The princes of Judah are like them that remove the landmark: I will pour out my wrath upon them like water. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ephraim is oppressed, he is crushed in judgment; because he was content to walk after man’s command. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore am I unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went Ephraim to Assyria, and sent to king Jareb: but he is not able to heal you, neither will he cure you of your wound. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will carry off, and there shall be none to deliver. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me earnestly.</p>

</body>
</html>