<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Set the trumpet to thy mouth. As an eagle he cometh against the house of Jehovah, because they have transgressed my covenant, and trespassed against my law. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They shall cry unto me, My God, we Israel know thee. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Israel hath cast off that which is good: the enemy shall pursue him. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have set up kings, but not by me; they have made princes, and I knew it not: of their silver and their gold have they made them idols, that they may be cut off. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He hath cast off thy calf, O Samaria; mine anger is kindled against them: how long will it be ere they attain to innocency? <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For from Israel is even this; the workman made it, and it is no God; yea, the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For they sow the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind: he hath no standing grain; the blade shall yield no meal; if so be it yield, strangers shall swallow it up. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Israel is swallowed up: now are they among the nations as a vessel wherein none delighteth. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For they are gone up to Assyria, like a wild ass alone by himself: Ephraim hath hired lovers. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yea, though they hire among the nations, now will I gather them; and they begin to be diminished by reason of the burden of the king of princes. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because Ephraim hath multiplied altars for sinning, altars have been unto him for sinning. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I wrote for him the ten thousand things of my law; but they are counted as a strange thing. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As for the sacrifices of mine offerings, they sacrifice flesh and eat it; but Jehovah accepteth them not: now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins; they shall return to Egypt. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Israel hath forgotten his Maker, and builded palaces; and Judah hath multiplied fortified cities: but I will send a fire upon his cities, and it shall devour the castles thereof.</p>

</body>
</html>