<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of Jehovah that came to Joel the son of Pethuel. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land. Hath this been in your days, or in the days of your fathers? <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Tell ye your children of it, and let your children tell their children, and their children another generation. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That which the palmer-worm hath left hath the locust eaten; and that which the locust hath left hath the canker-worm eaten; and that which the canker-worm hath left hath the caterpillar eaten. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Awake, ye drunkards, and weep; and wail, all ye drinkers of wine, because of the sweet wine; for it is cut off from your mouth. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number; his teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he hath the jaw-teeth of a lioness. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig-tree: he hath made it clean bare, and cast it away; the branches thereof are made white. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The meal-offering and the drink-offering are cut off from the house of Jehovah; the priests, Jehovah’s ministers, mourn. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The field is laid waste, the land mourneth; for the grain is destroyed, the new wine is dried up, the oil languisheth. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be confounded, O ye husbandmen, wail, O ye vinedressers, for the wheat and for the barley; for the harvest of the field is perished. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The vine is withered, and the fig-tree languisheth; the pomegranate-tree, the palm-tree also, and the apple-tree, even all the trees of the field are withered: for joy is withered away from the sons of men. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Gird yourselves with sackcloth, and lament, ye priests; wail, ye ministers of the altar; come, lie all night in sackcloth, ye ministers of my God: for the meal-offering and the drink-offering are withholden from the house of your God. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the old men and all the inhabitants of the land unto the house of Jehovah your God, and cry unto Jehovah. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Alas for the day! for the day of Jehovah is at hand, and as destruction from the Almighty shall it come. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Is not the food cut off before our eyes, yea, joy and gladness from the house of our God? <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The seeds rot under their clods; the garners are laid desolate, the barns are broken down; for the grain is withered. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> How do the beasts groan! the herds of cattle are perplexed, because they have no pasture; yea, the flocks of sheep are made desolate. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O Jehovah, to thee do I cry; for the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath burned all the trees of the field. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yea, the beasts of the field pant unto thee; for the water brooks are dried up, and the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness.</p>

</body>
</html>