<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye this word which I take up for a lamentation over you, O house of Israel. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The virgin of Israel is fallen; she shall no more rise: she is cast down upon her land; there is none to raise her up. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: The city that went forth a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that which went forth a hundred shall have ten left, to the house of Israel. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus saith Jehovah unto the house of Israel, Seek ye me, and ye shall live; <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but seek not Beth-el, nor enter into Gilgal, and pass not to Beer-sheba: for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Beth-el shall come to nought. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seek Jehovah, and ye shall live; lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and it devour, and there be none to quench it in Beth-el. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ye who turn justice to wormwood, and cast down righteousness to the earth, <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> seek him that maketh the Pleiades and Orion, and turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark with night; that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth (Jehovah is his name); <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> that bringeth sudden destruction upon the strong, so that destruction cometh upon the fortress. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They hate him that reproveth in the gate, and they abhor him that speaketh uprightly. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Forasmuch therefore as ye trample upon the poor, and take exactions from him of wheat: ye have built houses of hewn stone, but ye shall not dwell in them; ye have planted pleasant vineyards, but ye shall not drink the wine thereof. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I know how manifold are your transgressions, and how mighty are your sins-ye that afflict the just, that take a bribe, and that turn aside the needy in the gate from their right. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore he that is prudent shall keep silence in such a time; for it is an evil time. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live; and so Jehovah, the God of hosts, will be with you, as ye say. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish justice in the gate: it may be that Jehovah, the God of hosts, will be gracious unto the remnant of Joseph. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore thus saith Jehovah, the God of hosts, the Lord: Wailing shall be in all the broad ways; and they shall say in all the streets, Alas! Alas! and they shall call the husbandman to mourning, and such as are skilful in lamentation to wailing. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And in all vineyards shall be wailing; for I will pass through the midst of thee, saith Jehovah. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Woe unto you that desire the day of Jehovah! Wherefore would ye have the day of Jehovah? It is darkness, and not light. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or went into the house and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Shall not the day of Jehovah be darkness, and not light? even very dark, and no brightness in it? <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I hate, I despise your feasts, and I will take no delight in your solemn assemblies. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yea, though ye offer me your burnt-offerings and meal-offerings, I will not accept them; neither will I regard the peace-offerings of your fat beasts. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Take thou away from me the noise of thy songs; for I will not hear the melody of thy viols. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But let justice roll down as waters, and righteousness as a mighty stream. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Did ye bring unto me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, O house of Israel? <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Yea, ye have borne the tabernacle of your king and the shrine of your images, the star of your god, which ye made to yourselves. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus, saith Jehovah, whose name is the God of hosts.</p>

</body>
</html>