<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Habakkuk 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Habakkuk 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Jehovah, how long shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear? I cry out unto thee of violence, and thou wilt not save. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Why dost thou show me iniquity, and look upon perverseness? for destruction and violence are before me; and there is strife, and contention riseth up. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore the law is slacked, and justice doth never go forth; for the wicked doth compass about the righteous; therefore justice goeth forth perverted. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold ye among the nations, and look, and wonder marvellously; for I am working a work in your days, which ye will not believe though it be told you. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For, lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, that march through the breadth of the earth, to possess dwelling-places that are not theirs. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are terrible and dreadful; their judgment and their dignity proceed from themselves. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their horses also are swifter than leopards, and are more fierce than the evening wolves; and their horsemen press proudly on: yea, their horsemen come from far; they fly as an eagle that hasteth to devour. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They come all of them for violence; the set of their faces is forwards; and they gather captives as the sand. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yea, he scoffeth at kings, and princes are a derision unto him; he derideth every stronghold; for he heapeth up dust, and taketh it. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then shall he sweep by as a wind, and shall pass over, and be guilty, even he whose might is his god. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Art not thou from everlasting, O Jehovah my God, my Holy One? we shall not die. O Jehovah, thou hast ordained him for judgment; and thou, O Rock, hast established him for correction. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou that art of purer eyes than to behold evil, and that canst not look on perverseness, wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously, and holdest thy peace when the wicked swalloweth up the man that is more righteous than he; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and makest men as the fishes of the sea, as the creeping things, that have no ruler over them? <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He taketh up all of them with the angle, he catcheth them in his net, and gathereth them in his drag: therefore he rejoiceth and is glad. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore he sacrificeth unto his net, and burneth incense unto his drag; because by them his portion is fat, and his food plenteous. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shall he therefore empty his net, and spare not to slay the nations continually?</p>

</body>
</html>