<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Habakkuk 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Habakkuk 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet, set to Shigionoth. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Jehovah, I have heard the report of thee, and am afraid: O Jehovah, revive thy work in the midst of the years; In the midst of the years make it known; In wrath remember mercy. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God came from Teman, And the Holy One from mount Paran.</p>

<p>His glory covered the heavens, And the earth was full of his praise. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And his brightness was as the light; He had rays coming forth from his hand; And there was the hiding of his power. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Before him went the pestilence, And fiery bolts went forth at his feet. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He stood, and measured the earth; He beheld, and drove asunder the nations; And the eternal mountains were scattered; The everlasting hills did bow; His goings were as of old. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction; The curtains of the land of Midian did tremble. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Was Jehovah displeased with the rivers? Was thine anger against the rivers, Or thy wrath against the sea, That thou didst ride upon thy horses, Upon thy chariots of salvation? <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thy bow was made quite bare; The oaths to the tribes were a sure word.</p>

<p>Thou didst cleave the earth with rivers. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The mountains saw thee, and were afraid; The tempest of waters passed by; The deep uttered its voice, And lifted up its hands on high. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The sun and moon stood still in their habitation, At the light of thine arrows as they went, At the shining of thy glittering spear. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou didst march though the land in indignation; Thou didst thresh the nations in anger. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou wentest forth for the salvation of thy people, For the salvation of thine anointed; Thou woundest the head out of the house of the wicked man, Laying bare the foundation even unto the neck.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou didst pierce with his own staves the head of his warriors: They came as a whirlwind to scatter me; Their rejoicing was as to devour the poor secretly. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou didst tread the sea with thy horses, The heap of mighty waters.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I heard, and my body trembled, My lips quivered at the voice; Rottenness entereth into my bones, and I tremble in my place; Because I must wait quietly for the day of trouble, For the coming up of the people that invadeth us. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For though the fig-tree shall not flourish, Neither shall fruit be in the vines; The labor of the olive shall fail, And the fields shall yield no food; The flock shall be cut off from the fold, And there shall be no herd in the stalls: <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yet I will rejoice in Jehovah, I will joy in the God of my salvation. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jehovah, the Lord, is my strength; And he maketh my feet like hinds’ feet, And will make me to walk upon my high places.</p>

</body>
</html>