<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Malachi 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Malachi 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel by Malachi. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have loved you, saith Jehovah. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob’s brother, saith Jehovah: yet I loved Jacob; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> but Esau I hated, and made his mountains a desolation, and gave his heritage to the jackals of the wilderness. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whereas Edom saith, We are beaten down, but we will return and build the waste places; thus saith Jehovah of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; and men shall call them The border of wickedness, and The people against whom Jehovah hath indignation for ever. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, Jehovah be magnified beyond the border of Israel. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A son honoreth his father, and a servant his master: if then I am a father, where is mine honor? and if I am a master, where is my fear? saith Jehovah of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar. And ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of Jehovah is contemptible. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when ye offer the blind for sacrifice, it is no evil! and when ye offer the lame and sick, it is no evil! Present it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee? or will he accept thy person? saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now, I pray you, entreat the favor of God, that he may be gracious unto us: this hath been by your means: will he accept any of your persons? saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Oh that there were one among you that would shut the doors, that ye might not kindle fire on mine altar in vain! I have no pleasure in you, saith Jehovah of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name shall be great among the Gentiles, saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But ye profane it, in that ye say, The table of Jehovah is polluted, and the fruit thereof, even its food, is contemptible. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye say also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and ye have snuffed at it, saith Jehovah of hosts; and ye have brought that which was taken by violence, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye bring the offering: should I accept this at your hand? saith Jehovah. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But cursed be the deceiver, who hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a blemished thing; for I am a great King, saith Jehovah of hosts, and my name is terrible among the Gentiles.</p>

</body>
</html>