<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then there come to Jesus from Jerusalem Pharisees and scribes, saying, <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash not their hands when they eat bread. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God because of your tradition? <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For God said, Honor thy father and thy mother: and, He that speaketh evil of father or mother, let him die the death. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But ye say, whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, That wherewith thou mightest have been profited by me is given to God; <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> he shall not honor his father. And ye have made void the word of God because of your tradition. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ye hypocrites, well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying, <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> This people honoreth me with their lips; But their heart is far from me. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But in vain do they worship me, Teaching as their doctrines the precepts of men.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he called to him the multitude, and said unto them, Hear, and understand: <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Not that which entereth into the mouth defileth the man; but that which proceedeth out of the mouth, this defileth the man. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then came the disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, when they heard this saying? <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he answered and said, Every plant which my heavenly Father planted not, shall be rooted up. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let them alone: they are blind guides. And if the blind guide the blind, both shall fall into a pit. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Peter answered and said unto him, Declare unto us the parable. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he said, Are ye also even yet without understanding? <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Perceive ye not, that whatsoever goeth into the mouth passeth into the belly, and is cast out into the draught? <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the things which proceed out of the mouth come forth out of the heart; and they defile the man. <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For out of the heart come forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, railings: <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> these are the things which defile the man; but to eat with unwashen hands defileth not the man.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Jesus went out thence, and withdrew into the parts of Tyre and Sidon. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And behold, a Canaanitish woman came out from those borders, and cried, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a demon. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away; for she crieth after us. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But he answered and said, I was not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But she came and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he answered and said, It is not meet to take the children’s bread and cast it to the dogs. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But she said, Yea, Lord: for even the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters’ table. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith: be it done unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was healed from that hour.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jesus departed thence, and came nigh unto the sea of Galilee; and he went up into the mountain, and sat there. <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And there came unto him great multitudes, having with them the lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and they cast them down at this feet; and he healed them: <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> insomuch that the multitude wondered, when they saw the dumb speaking, the maimed whole, and lame walking, and the blind seeing: and they glorified the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Jesus called unto him his disciples, and said, I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days and have nothing to eat: and I would not send them away fasting, lest haply they faint on the way. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the disciples say unto him, Whence should we have so many loaves in a desert place as to fill so great a multitude? <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jesus said unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few small fishes. <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground; <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and he took the seven loaves and the fishes; and he gave thanks and brake, and gave to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes. <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they all ate, and were filled: and they took up that which remained over of the broken pieces, seven baskets full. <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And they that did eat were four thousand men, besides women and children. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he sent away the multitudes, and entered into the boat, and came into the borders of Magadan.</p>

</body>
</html>