<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And five of them were foolish, and five were wise. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the foolish, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them: <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now while the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But at midnight there is a cry, Behold, the bridegroom! Come ye forth to meet him. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are going out. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But the wise answered, saying, Peradventure there will not be enough for us and you: go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And while they went away to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage feast: and the door was shut. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Watch therefore, for ye know not the day nor the hour.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For it is as when a man, going into another country, called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one; to each according to his several ability; and he went on his journey. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Straightway he that received the five talents went and traded with them, and made other five talents. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In like manner he also that received the two gained other two. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But he that received the one went away and digged in the earth, and hid his lord’s money. <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now after a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and maketh a reckoning with them. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he that received the five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: lo, I have gained other five talents. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will set thee over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he also that received the two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: lo, I have gained other two talents. <a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will set thee over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy lord. <a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he also that had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man, reaping where thou didst not sow, and gathering where thou didst not scatter; <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and I was afraid, and went away and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, thou hast thine own. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But his lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I did not scatter; <a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back mine own with interest. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Take ye away therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him that hath the ten talents. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not, even that which he hath shall be taken away. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And cast ye out the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But when the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the angels with him, then shall he sit on the throne of his glory: <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and before him shall be gathered all the nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as the shepherd separateth the sheep from the goats; <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: <a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> for I was hungry, and ye gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in; <a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> naked, and ye clothed me; I was sick, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came unto me. <a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee hungry, and fed thee? or athirst, and gave thee drink? <a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And when saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee? <a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? <a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it unto one of these my brethren, <a id="c25_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels: <a id="c25_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> for I was hungry, and ye did not give me to eat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink; <a id="c25_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> I was a stranger, and ye took me not in; naked, and ye clothed me not; sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. <a id="c25_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then shall they also answer, saying, Lord, when saw we thee hungry, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee? <a id="c25_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not unto one of these least, ye did it not unto me. <a id="c25_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And these shall go away into eternal punishment: but the righteous into eternal life.</p>

</body>
</html>