<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now when morning was come, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death: <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and they bound him, and led him away, and delivered him up to Pilate the governor.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Judas, who betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented himself, and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> saying, I have sinned in that I betrayed innocent blood. But they said, What is that to us? see thou to it. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he cast down the pieces of silver into the sanctuary, and departed; and he went away and hanged himself. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the chief priests took the pieces of silver, and said, It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is the price of blood. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they took counsel, and bought with them the potter’s field, to bury strangers in. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wherefore that field was called, the field of blood, unto this day. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then was fulfilled that which was spoken through Jeremiah the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was priced, whom certain of the children of Israel did price; <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and they gave them for the potter’s field, as the Lord appointed me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now Jesus stood before the governor: and the governor asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then saith Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee? <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he gave him no answer, not even to one word: insomuch that the governor marvelled greatly. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now at the feast the governor was wont to release unto the multitude one prisoner, whom they would. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When therefore they were gathered together, Pilate said unto them, Whom will ye that I release unto you? Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ? <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he knew that for envy they had delivered him up. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And while he was sitting on the judgment-seat, his wife sent unto him, saying, Have thou nothing to do with that righteous man; for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas, and destroy Jesus. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But the governor answered and said unto them, Which of the two will ye that I release unto you? And they said, Barabbas. <a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Pilate saith unto them, What then shall I do unto Jesus who is called Christ? They all say, Let him be crucified. <a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out exceedingly, saying, Let him be crucified. <a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So when Pilate saw that he prevailed nothing, but rather that a tumult was arising, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this righteous man; see ye to it. <a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And all the people answered and said, His blood be on us, and on our children. <a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then released he unto them Barabbas; but Jesus he scourged and delivered to be crucified.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the Praetorium, and gathered unto him the whole band. <a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet robe. <a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they platted a crown of thorns and put it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand; and they kneeled down before him, and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews! <a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And they spat upon him, and took the reed and smote him on the head. <a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And when they had mocked him, they took off from him the robe, and put on him his garments, and led him away to crucify him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And as they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name: him they compelled to go with them, that he might bear his cross.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they were come unto a place called Golgotha, that is to say, The place of a skull, <a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> they gave him wine to drink mingled with gall: and when he had tasted it, he would not drink. <a id="c27_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments among them, casting lots; <a id="c27_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and they sat and watched him there. <a id="c27_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they set up over his head his accusation written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS. <a id="c27_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then are there crucified with him two robbers, one on the right hand and one on the left. <a id="c27_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, <a id="c27_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and saying, Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, save thyself: if thou art the Son of God, come down from the cross. <a id="c27_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> In like manner also the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes and elders, said, <a id="c27_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> He saved others; himself he cannot save. He is the King of Israel; let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe on him. <a id="c27_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He trusteth on God; let him deliver him now, if he desireth him: for he said, I am the Son of God. <a id="c27_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And the robbers also that were crucified with him cast upon him the same reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour. <a id="c27_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? <a id="c27_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And some of them stood there, when they heard it, said, This man calleth Elijah. <a id="c27_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And straightway one of them ran, and took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink. <a id="c27_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And the rest said, Let be; let us see whether Elijah cometh to save him. <a id="c27_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Jesus cried again with a loud voice, and yielded up his spirit. <a id="c27_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And behold, the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom; and the earth did quake; and the rocks were rent; <a id="c27_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> and the tombs were opened; and many bodies of the saints that had fallen asleep were raised; <a id="c27_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and coming forth out of the tombs after his resurrection they entered into the holy city and appeared unto many. <a id="c27_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Now the centurion, and they that were with him watching Jesus, when they saw the earthquake, and the things that were done, feared exceedingly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God. <a id="c27_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And many women were there beholding from afar, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him: <a id="c27_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And when even was come, there came a rich man from Arimathaea, named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus’ disciple: <a id="c27_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> this man went to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded it to be given up. <a id="c27_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And Joseph took the body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, <a id="c27_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock: and he rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb, and departed. <a id="c27_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> Now on the morrow, which is the day after the Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees were gathered together unto Pilate, <a id="c27_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said while he was yet alive, After three days I rise again. <a id="c27_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest haply his disciples come and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead: and the last error will be worse than the first. <a id="c27_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Pilate said unto them, Ye have a guard: go, make it as sure as ye can. <a id="c27_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, the guard being with them.</p>

</body>
</html>