<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And seeing the multitudes, he went up into the mountain: and when he had sat down, his disciples came unto him: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessed are they that hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called sons of God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Blessed are they that have been persecuted for righteousness’ sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Blessed are ye when men shall reproach you, and persecute you, and say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets that were before you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out and trodden under foot of men. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ye are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hid. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Neither do men light a lamp, and put it under the bushel, but on the stand; and it shineth unto all that are in the house. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Even so let your light shine before men; that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Think not that I came to destroy the law or the prophets: I came not to destroy, but to fulfil. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass away, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass away from the law, till all things be accomplished. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For I say unto you, that except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Ye have heard that it was said to them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment: <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> but I say unto you, that every one who is angry with his brother shall be in danger of the judgment; and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council; and whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of the hell of fire. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If therefore thou art offering thy gift at the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath aught against thee, <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way, first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Agree with thine adversary quickly, while thou art with him in the way; lest haply the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou have paid the last farthing.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Ye have heard that it was said, Thou shalt not commit adultery: <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> but I say unto you, that every one that looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And if thy right eye causeth thee to stumble, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not thy whole body be cast into hell. <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And if thy right hand causeth thee to stumble, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not thy whole body go into hell. <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It was said also, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement: <a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> but I say unto you, that every one that putteth away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, maketh her an adulteress: and whosoever shall marry her when she is put away committeth adultery.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Again, ye have heard that it was said to them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths: <a id="c5_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> but I say unto you, swear not at all; neither by the heaven, for it is the throne of God; <a id="c5_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> nor by the earth, for it is the footstool of his feet; nor by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King. <a id="c5_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, for thou canst not make one hair white or black. <a id="c5_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But let your speech be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: and whatsoever is more than these is of the evil one.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Ye have heard that it was said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth: <a id="c5_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> but I say unto you, resist not him that is evil: but whosoever smiteth thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. <a id="c5_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And if any man would go to law with thee, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also. <a id="c5_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And whosoever shall compel thee to go one mile, go with him two. <a id="c5_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Ye have heard that it was said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy: <a id="c5_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> but I say unto you, love your enemies, and pray for them that persecute you; <a id="c5_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> that ye may be sons of your Father who is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sendeth rain on the just and the unjust. <a id="c5_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> For if ye love them that love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same? <a id="c5_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not even the Gentiles the same? <a id="c5_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Ye therefore shall be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect.</p>

</body>
</html>