<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat Judah and his brethren; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and Judah begat Perez and Zerah of Tamar; and Perez begat Hezron; and Hezron begat Ram; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and Ram begat Amminadab; and Amminadab begat Nahshon; and Nahshon begat Salmon; <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and Salmon begat Boaz of Rahab; and Boaz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Jesse begat David the king.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and Solomon begat Rehoboam; and Rehoboam begat Abijah; and Abijah begat Asa; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and Asa begat Jehoshaphat; and Jehoshaphat begat Joram; and Joram begat Uzziah; <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and Uzziah begat Jotham; and Jotham begat Ahaz; and Ahaz begat Hezekiah; <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and Hezekiah begat Manasseh; and Manasseh begat Amon; and Amon begat Josiah; <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Josiah begat Jechoniah and his brethren, at the time of the carrying away to Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And after the carrying away to Babylon, Jechoniah begat Shealtiel; and Shealtiel begat Zerubbabel; <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and Zerubbabel begat Abiud; and Abiud begat Eliakim; and Eliakim begat Azor; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Azor begat Sadoc; and Sadoc begat Achim; and Achim begat Eliud; <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Eliud begat Eleazar; and Eleazar begat Matthan; and Matthan begat Jacob; <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So all the generations from Abraham unto David are fourteen generations; and from David unto the carrying away to Babylon fourteen generations; and from the carrying away to Babylon unto the Christ fourteen generations.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together she was found with child of the Holy Spirit. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Joseph her husband, being a righteous man, and not willing to make her a public example, was minded to put her away privily. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But when he thought on these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And she shall bring forth a son; and thou shalt call his name JESUS; for it is he that shall save his people from their sins. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now all this is come to pass, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying, <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, And they shall call his name Immanuel;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Joseph arose from his sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took unto him his wife; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and knew her not till she had brought forth a son: and he called his name JESUS.</p>

</body>
</html>