<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when he entered again into Capernaum after some days, it was noised that he was in the house. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And many were gathered together, so that there was no longer room for them, no, not even about the door: and he spake the word unto them. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they come, bringing unto him a man sick of the palsy, borne of four. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when they could not come nigh unto him for the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed whereon the sick of the palsy lay. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jesus seeing their faith saith unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins are forgiven. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But there were certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts, <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Why doth this man thus speak? he blasphemeth: who can forgive sins but one, even God? <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And straightway Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, saith unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Which is easier, to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins are forgiven; or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk? <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority on earth to forgive sins (he saith to the sick of the palsy), <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I say unto thee, Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thy house. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he arose, and straightway took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught them. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the place of toll, and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass, that he was sitting at meat in his house, and many publicans and sinners sat down with Jesus and his disciples: for there were many, and they followed him. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the scribes of the Pharisees, when they saw that he was eating with the sinners and publicans, said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners? <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when Jesus heard it, he saith unto them, They that are whole have no need of a physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And John’s disciples and the Pharisees were fasting: and they come and say unto him, Why do John’s disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not? <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Jesus said unto them, Can the sons of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then will they fast in that day. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> No man seweth a piece of undressed cloth on an old garment: else that which should fill it up taketh from it, the new from the old, and a worse rent is made. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And no man putteth new wine into old wineskins; else the wine will burst the skins, and the wine perisheth, and the skins: but <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And it came to pass, that he was going on the sabbath day through the grainfields; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful? <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said unto them, Did ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was hungry, he, and they that were with him? <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> How he entered into the house of God when Abiathar was high priest, and ate the showbread, which it is not lawful to eat save for the priests, and gave also to them that were with him? <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said unto them, The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath: <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> so that the Son of man is lord even of the sabbath.</p>

</body>
</html>