<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there who had his hand withered. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might accuse him. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he saith unto the man that had his hand withered, Stand forth. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he saith unto them, Is it lawful on the sabbath day to do good, or to do harm? to save a life, or to kill? But they held their peace. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved at the hardening of their heart, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he stretched it forth; and his hand was restored. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Pharisees went out, and straightway with the Herodians took counsel against him, how they might destroy him. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jesus with his disciples withdrew to the sea: and a great multitude from Galilee followed; and from Judaea, <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and beyond the Jordan, and about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, hearing what great things he did, came unto him. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he spake to his disciples, that a little boat should wait on him because of the crowd, lest they should throng him: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for he had healed many; insomuch that as many as had plagues pressed upon him that they might touch him. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the unclean spirits, whensoever they beheld him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he charged them much that they should not make him known. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he goeth up into the mountain, and calleth unto him whom he himself would; and they went unto him. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he appointed twelve, that they might be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and to have authority to cast out demons: <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and Simon he surnamed Peter; <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and them he surnamed Boanerges, which is, Sons of thunder: <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean, <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. And he cometh into a house. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And when his friends heard it, they went out to lay hold on him: for they said, He is beside himself. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the scribes that came down from Jerusalem said, He hath Beelzebub, and, By the prince of the demons casteth he out the demons. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he called them unto him, and said unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And if a house be divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And if Satan hath risen up against himself, and is divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But no one can enter into the house of the strong man, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man; and then he will spoil his house. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Verily I say unto you, All their sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and their blasphemies wherewith soever they shall blaspheme: <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but whosoever shall blaspheme against the Holy Spirit hath never forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin: <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> because they said, He hath an unclean spirit. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And there come his mother and his brethren; and, standing without, they sent unto him, calling him. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And a multitude was sitting about him; and they say unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren without seek for thee. <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he answereth them, and saith, Who is my mother and my brethren? <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And looking round on them that sat round about him, he saith, Behold, my mother and my brethren! <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.</p>

</body>
</html>