<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when they draw nigh unto Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount of Olives, he sendeth two of his disciples, <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and saith unto them, Go your way into the village that is over against you: and straightway as ye enter into it, ye shall find a colt tied, whereon no man ever yet sat; loose him, and bring him. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And if any one say unto you, Why do ye this? say ye, The Lord hath need of him; and straightway he will send him back hither. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they went away, and found a colt tied at the door without in the open street; and they loose him. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And certain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye, loosing the colt? <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they said unto them even as Jesus had said: and they let them go. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they bring the colt unto Jesus, and cast on him their garments; and he sat upon him. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And many spread their garments upon the way; and others branches, which they had cut from the fields. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, Hosanna; Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord: <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Blessed is the kingdom that cometh, the kingdom of our father David: Hosanna in the highest. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he entered into Jerusalem, into the temple; and when he had looked round about upon all things, it being now eventide, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And on the morrow, when they were come out from Bethany, he hungered. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find anything thereon: and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for it was not the season of figs. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit from thee henceforward for ever. And his disciples heard it. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they come to Jerusalem: and he entered into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold and them that bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money-changers, and the seats of them that sold the doves; <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and he would not suffer that any man should carry a vessel through the temple. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he taught, and said unto them, Is it not written, My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations? but ye have made it a den of robbers. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the chief priests and the scribes heard it, and sought how they might destroy him: for they feared him, for all the multitude was astonished at his teaching. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And every evening he went forth out of the city. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And as they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away from the roots. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Peter calling to remembrance saith unto him, Rabbi, behold, the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered away. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou taken up and cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that what he saith cometh to pass; he shall have it. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore I say unto you, All things whatsoever ye pray and ask for, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And whensoever ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have aught against any one; that your Father also who is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in heaven forgive your trespasses. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they come again to Jerusalem: and as he was walking in the temple, there come to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders; <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and they said unto him, By what authority doest thou these things? or who gave thee this authority to do these things? <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jesus said unto them, I will ask of you one question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or from men? answer me. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; He will say, Why then did ye not believe him? <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But should we say, From men--they feared the people: for all verily held John to be a prophet. <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they answered Jesus and say, We know not. And Jesus saith unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things.</p>

</body>
</html>