<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he said also unto the disciples, There was a certain rich man, who had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he was wasting his goods. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he called him, and said unto him, What is this that I hear of thee? render the account of thy stewardship; for thou canst be no longer steward. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the steward said within himself, What shall I do, seeing that my lord taketh away the stewardship from me? I have not strength to dig; to beg I am ashamed. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And calling to him each one of his lord’s debtors, he said to the first, How much owest thou unto my lord? <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said, A hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bond, and sit down quickly and write fifty. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, A hundred measures of wheat. He saith unto him, Take thy bond, and write fourscore. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And his lord commended the unrighteous steward because he had done wisely: for the sons of this world are for their own generation wiser than the sons of the light. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends by means of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when it shall fail, they may receive you into the eternal tabernacles. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He that is faithful in a very little is faithful also in much: and he that is unrighteous in a very little is unrighteous also in much. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches? <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another’s, who will give you that which is your own? <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> No servant can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the Pharisees, who were lovers of money, heard all these things; and they scoffed at him. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said unto them, Ye are they that justify yourselves in the sight of men; but God knoweth your hearts: for that which is exalted among men is an abomination in the sight of God. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The law and the prophets were until John: from that time the gospel of the kingdom of God is preached, and every man entereth violently into it. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, than for one tittle of the law to fall. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Every one that putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and he that marrieth one that is put away from a husband committeth adultery. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now there was a certain rich man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, faring sumptuously every day: <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and a certain beggar named Lazarus was laid at his gate, full of sores, <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and desiring to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the rich man’s table; yea, even the dogs come and licked his sores. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and that he was carried away by the angels into Abraham’s bosom: and the rich man also died, and was buried. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am in anguish in this flame. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and Lazarus in like manner evil things: but now here he is comforted and thou art in anguish. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And besides all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, that they that would pass from hence to you may not be able, and that none may cross over from thence to us. <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father’s house; <a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> for I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment. <a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But Abraham saith, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them. <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one go to them from the dead, they will repent. <a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, if one rise from the dead.</p>

</body>
</html>