<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the mean time, when the many thousands of the multitude were gathered together, insomuch that they trod one upon another, he began to say unto his disciples first of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But there is nothing covered up, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Wherefore whatsoever ye have said in the darkness shall be heard in the light; and what ye have spoken in the ear in the inner chambers shall be proclaimed upon the housetops. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I say unto you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I will warn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, who after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I say unto you, Fear him. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Are not five sparrows sold for two pence? and not one of them is forgotten in the sight of God. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not: ye are of more value than many sparrows. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I say unto you, Every one who shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God: <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but he that denieth me in the presence of men shall be denied in the presence of the angels of God. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And every one who shall speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy Spirit it shall not be forgiven. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when they bring you before the synagogues, and the rulers, and the authorities, be not anxious how or what ye shall answer, or what ye shall say: <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for the Holy Spirit shall teach you in that very hour what ye ought to say. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And one out of the multitude said unto him, Teacher, bid my brother divide the inheritance with me. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you? <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said unto them, Take heed, and keep yourselves from all covetousness: for a man’s life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and he reasoned within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have not where to bestow my fruits? <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my grain and my goods. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, be merry. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But God said unto him, Thou foolish one, this night is thy soul required of thee; and the things which thou hast prepared, whose shall they be? <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God. <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall eat; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the life is more than the food, and the body than the raiment. <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Consider the ravens, that they sow not, neither reap; which have no store-chamber nor barn; and God feedeth them: of how much more value are ye than the birds! <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And which of you by being anxious can add a cubit unto the measure of his life? <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If then ye are not able to do even that which is least, why are ye anxious concerning the rest? <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Consider the lilies, how they grow: they toil not, neither do they spin; yet I say unto you, Even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if God doth so clothe the grass in the field, which to-day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven; how much more shall he clothe you, O ye of little faith? <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And seek not ye what ye shall eat, and what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind. <a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: but your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things. <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Yet seek ye his kingdom, and these things shall be added unto you. <a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father’s good pleasure to give you the kingdom. <a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Sell that which ye have, and give alms; make for yourselves purses which wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where no thief draweth near, neither moth destroyeth. <a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. <a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Let your loins be girded about, and your lamps burning; <a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and be ye yourselves like unto men looking for their lord, when he shall return from the marriage feast; that, when he cometh and knocketh, they may straightway open unto him. <a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them sit down to meat, and shall come and serve them. <a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And if he shall come in the second watch, and if in the third, and find them so blessed are those servants. <a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, and not have left his house to be broken through. <a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Be ye also ready: for in an hour that ye think not the Son of man cometh. <a id="c12_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And Peter said, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even unto all? <a id="c12_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall set over his household, to give them their portion of food in due season? <a id="c12_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing. <a id="c12_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Of a truth I say unto you, that he will set him over all that he hath. <a id="c12_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But if that servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken; <a id="c12_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> the lord of that servant shall come in a day when he expecteth not, and in an hour when he knoweth not, and shall cut him asunder, and appoint his portion with the unfaithful. <a id="c12_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And that servant, who knew his lord’s will, and made not ready, nor did according to his will, shall be beaten with many <a id="c12_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> but he that knew not, and did things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. And to whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required: and to whom they commit much, of him will they ask the more. <a id="c12_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> I came to cast fire upon the earth; and what do I desire, if it is already kindled? <a id="c12_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished! <a id="c12_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Think ye that I am come to give peace in the earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division: <a id="c12_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> for there shall be from henceforth five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three. <a id="c12_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> They shall be divided, father against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against her mother; mother in law against her daughter in law, and daughter in law against her mother in law. <a id="c12_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And he said to the multitudes also, When ye see a cloud rising in the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower; and so it cometh to pass. <a id="c12_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And when ye see a south wind blowing, ye say, There will be a scorching heat; and it cometh to pass. <a id="c12_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Ye hypocrites, ye know how to interpret the face of the earth and the heaven; but how is it that ye know not how to interpret this time? <a id="c12_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right? <a id="c12_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> For as thou art going with thine adversary before the magistrate, on the way give diligence to be quit of him; lest haply he drag thee unto the judge, and the judge shall deliver thee to the officer, and the officer shall cast thee into prison. <a id="c12_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> I say unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou have paid the very last mite.</p>

</body>
</html>