<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus of Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister Martha. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it was that Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sisters therefore sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But when Jesus heard it, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God may be glorified thereby. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When therefore he heard that he was sick, he abode at that time two days in the place where he was. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then after this he saith to the disciples, Let us go into Judaea again. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The disciples say unto him, Rabbi, the Jews were but now seeking to stone thee; and goest thou thither again? <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If a man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because the light is not in him. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> These things spake he: and after this he saith unto them, Our friend Lazarus is fallen asleep; but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The disciples therefore said unto him, Lord, if he is fallen asleep, he will recover. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now Jesus had spoken of his death: but they thought that he spake of taking rest in sleep. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then Jesus therefore said unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thomas therefore, who is called Didymus, said unto his fellow-disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So when Jesus came, he found that he had been in the tomb four days already. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off; <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary, to console them concerning their brother. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Martha therefore, when she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him: but Mary still sat in the house. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Martha therefore said unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And even now I know that, whatsoever thou shalt ask of God, God will give thee. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth on me, though he die, yet shall he live; <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and whosoever liveth and believeth on me shall never die. Believest thou this? <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I have believed that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, even he that cometh into the world. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And when she had said this, she went away, and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Teacher is here, and calleth thee. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And she, when she heard it, arose quickly, and went unto him. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> (Now Jesus was not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met him.) <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The Jews then who were with her in the house, and were consoling her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up quickly and went out, followed her, supposing that she was going unto the tomb to weep there. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Mary therefore, when she came where Jesus was, and saw him, fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping who came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled, <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and said, Where have ye laid him? They say unto him, Lord, come and see. <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jesus wept. <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The Jews therefore said, Behold how he loved him! <a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But some of them said, Could not this man, who opened the eyes of him that was blind, have caused that this man also should not die? <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone lay against it. <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Jesus saith, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time the body decayeth; for he hath been dead four days. <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou believedst, thou shouldest see the glory of God? <a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou heardest me. <a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the multitude that standeth around I said it, that they may believe that thou didst send me. <a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And when he had thus spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. <a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> He that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with grave-clothes; and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go. <a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Many therefore of the Jews, who came to Mary and beheld that which he did, believed on him. <a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them the things which Jesus had done. <a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> The chief priests therefore and the Pharisees gathered a council, and said, What do we? for this man doeth many signs. <a id="c11_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him: and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation. <a id="c11_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, <a id="c11_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> nor do ye take account that it is expedient for you that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. <a id="c11_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Now this he said not of himself: but, being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for the nation; <a id="c11_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> and not for the nation only, but that he might also gather together into one the children of God that are scattered abroad. <a id="c11_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> So from that day forth they took counsel that they might put him to death. <a id="c11_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews, but departed thence into the country near to the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim; and there he tarried with the disciples. <a id="c11_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Now the passover of the Jews was at hand: and many went up to Jerusalem out of the country before the passover, to purify themselves. <a id="c11_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> They sought therefore for Jesus, and spake one with another, as they stood in the temple, What think ye? That he will not come to the feast? <a id="c11_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given commandment, that, if any man knew where he was, he should show it, that they might take him.</p>

</body>
</html>