<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now before the feast of the passover, Jesus knowing that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto his Father, having loved his own that were in the world, he loved them unto the end. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And during supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray him, <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all the things into his hands, and that he came forth from God, and goeth unto God, <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> riseth from supper, and layeth aside his garments; and he took a towel, and girded himself. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then he poureth water into the basin, and began to wash the disciples’ feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So he cometh to Simon Peter. He saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt understand hereafter. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus saith to him, He that is bathed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit: and ye are clean, but not all. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he knew him that should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So when he had washed their feet, and taken his garments, and sat down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye call me, Teacher, and, Lord: and ye say well; for so I am. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another’s feet. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For I have given you an example, that ye also should do as I have done to you. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, a servant is not greater than his lord; neither one that is sent greater than he that sent him. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If ye know these things, blessed are ye if ye do them. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but that the scripture may be fulfilled: He that eateth my bread lifted up his heel against me. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> From henceforth I tell you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe that I am he. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in the spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> There was at the table reclining in Jesus’ bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Simon Peter therefore beckoneth to him, and saith unto him, Tell us who it is of whom he speaketh. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He leaning back, as he was, on Jesus’ breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it? <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jesus therefore answereth, He it is, for whom I shall dip the sop, and give it him. So when he had dipped the sop, he taketh and giveth it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And after the sop, then entered Satan into him. Jesus therefore saith unto him, What thou doest, do quickly. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto him. <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For some thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus said unto him, Buy what things we have need of for the feast; or, that he should give something to the poor. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He then having received the sop went out straightway: and it was night. <a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> When therefore he was gone out, Jesus saith, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him; <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and God shall glorify him in himself, and straightway shall he glorify him. <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; so now I say unto you. <a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another; even as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. <a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. <a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered, Whither I go, thou canst not follow now; but thou shalt follow afterwards. <a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Peter saith unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee even now? I will lay down my life for thee. <a id="c13_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus answereth, Wilt thou lay down thy life for me? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice.</p>

</body>
</html>