<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be caused to stumble. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the hour cometh, that whosoever killeth you shall think that he offereth service unto God. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And these things will they do, because they have not known the Father, nor me. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But these things have I spoken unto you, that when their hour is come, ye may remember them, how that I told you. And these things I said not unto you from the beginning, because I was with you. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now I go unto him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou? <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But because I have spoken these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is expedient for you that I go away; for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I go, I will send him unto you. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he, when he is come, will convict the world in respect of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> of sin, because they believe not on me; <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> of righteousness, because I go to the Father, and ye behold me no more; <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> of judgment, because the prince of this world hath been judged. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he shall guide you into all the truth: for he shall not speak from himself; but what things soever he shall hear, these shall he speak: and he shall declare unto you the things that are to come. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He shall glorify me: for he shall take of mine, and shall declare it unto you. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All things whatsoever the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he taketh of mine, and shall declare it unto you. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A little while, and ye behold me no more; and again a little while, and ye shall see me. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Some of his disciples therefore said one to another, What is this that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye behold me not; and again a little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I go to the Father? <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? We know not what he saith. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jesus perceived that they were desirous to ask him, and he said unto them, Do ye inquire among yourselves concerning this, that I said, A little while, and ye behold me not, and again a little while, and ye shall see me? <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, that ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but when she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for the joy that a man is born into the world. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And ye therefore now have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no one taketh away from you. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And in that day ye shall ask me no question. Verily, verily, I say unto you, if ye shall ask anything of the Father, he will give it you in my name. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be made full. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These things have I spoken unto you in dark sayings: the hour cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in dark sayings, but shall tell you plainly of the Father. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In that day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you; <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> for the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came forth from the Father. <a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I came out from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go unto the Father. <a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> His disciples say, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no dark saying. <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now know we that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that thou camest forth from God. <a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe? <a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. <a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> These things have I spoken unto you, that in me ye may have peace. In the world ye have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.</p>

</body>
</html>