<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And as he passed by, he saw a man blind from his birth. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man, or his parents, that he should be born blind? <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus answered, Neither did this man sin, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When I am in the world, I am the light of the world. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and anointed his eyes with the clay, <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam (which is by interpretation, Sent). He went away therefore, and washed, and came seeing. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The neighbors therefore, and they that saw him aforetime, that he was a beggar, said, Is not this he that sat and begged? <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Others said, It is he: others said, No, but he is like him. He said, I am he. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They said therefore unto him, How then were thine eyes opened? <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He answered, The man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to Siloam, and wash: so I went away and washed, and I received sight. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they said unto him, Where is he? He saith, I know not. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They bring to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now it was the sabbath on the day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Again therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. And he said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and I see. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Some therefore of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, because he keepeth not the sabbath. But others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such signs? And there was division among them. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They say therefore unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, in that he opened thine eyes? And he said, He is a prophet. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Jews therefore did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight, <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? How then doth he now see? <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> His parents answered and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind: <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but how he now seeth, we know not; or who opened his eyes, we know not: ask him; he is of age; he shall speak for himself. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> These things said his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man should confess him <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So they called a second time the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give glory to God: we know that this man is a sinner. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He therefore answered, Whether he is a sinner, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They said therefore unto him, What did he to thee? How opened he thine eyes? <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He answered them, I told you even now, and ye did not hear; wherefore would ye hear it again? would ye also become his disciples? <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are disciples of Moses. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> We know that God hath spoken unto Moses: but as for this man, we know not whence he is. <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The man answered and said unto them, Why, herein is the marvel, that ye know not whence he is, and yet he opened mine eyes. <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> We know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and do his will, him he heareth. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Since the world began it was never heard that any one opened the eyes of a man born blind. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and finding him, he said, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? <a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He answered and said, And who is he, Lord, that I may believe on him? <a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and he it is that speaketh with thee. <a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. <a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Jesus said, For judgment came I into this world, that they that see not may see; and that they that see may become blind. <a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and said unto him, Are we also blind? <a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye would have no sin: but now ye say, We see: your sin remaineth.</p>

</body>
</html>