<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> but Jesus went unto the mount of Olives. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the scribes and the Pharisees bring a woman taken in adultery; and having set her in the midst, <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> they say unto him, Teacher, this woman hath been taken in adultery, in the very act. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now in the law Moses commanded us to stone such: what then sayest thou of her? <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And this they said, trying him, that they might have whereof to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And again he stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they, when they heard it, went out one by one, beginning from the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman, where she was, in the midst. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jesus lifted up himself, and said unto her, Woman, where are they? did no man condemn thee? <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And she said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn thee: go thy way; from henceforth sin no more. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Again therefore Jesus spake unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in the darkness, but shall have the light of life. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest witness of thyself; thy witness is not true. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jesus answered and said unto them, Even if I bear witness of myself, my witness is true; for I know whence I came, and whither I go; but ye know not whence I come, or whither I go. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yea and if I judge, my judgment is true; for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yea and in your law it is written, that the witness of two men is true. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I am he that beareth witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They said therefore unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye know neither me, nor my Father: if ye knew me, ye would know my Father also. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These words spake he in the treasury, as he taught in the temple: and no man took him; because his hour was not yet come. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He said therefore again unto them, I go away, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sin: whither I go, ye cannot come. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Jews therefore said, Will he kill himself, that he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come? <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for except ye believe that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They said therefore unto him, Who art thou? Jesus said unto them, Even that which I have also spoken unto you from the beginning. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I have many things to speak and to judge concerning you: howbeit he that sent me is true; and the things which I heard from him, these speak I unto the world. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They perceived not that he spake to them of the Father. <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Jesus therefore said, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself, but as the Father taught me, I speak these things. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he that sent me is with me; he hath not left me alone; for I do always the things that are pleasing to him. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> As he spake these things, many believed on him. <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jesus therefore said to those Jews that had believed him, If ye abide in my word, then are ye truly my disciples; <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> They answered unto him, We are Abraham’s seed, and have never yet been in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free? <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Every one that committeth sin is the bondservant of sin. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the bondservant abideth not in the house for ever: the son abideth for ever. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> If therefore the Son shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I know that ye are Abraham’s seed: yet ye seek to kill me, because my word hath not free course in you. <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I speak the things which I have seen with my Father: and ye also do the things which ye heard from your father. <a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> They answered and said unto him, Our father is Abraham. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham’s children, ye would do the works of Abraham. <a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I heard from God: this did not Abraham. <a id="c8_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Ye do the works of your father. They said unto him, We were not born of fornication; we have one Father, even God. <a id="c8_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I came forth and am come from God; for neither have I come of myself, but he sent me. <a id="c8_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Why do ye not understand my speech? Even because ye cannot hear my word. <a id="c8_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father it is your will to do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and standeth not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father thereof. <a id="c8_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But because I say the truth, ye believe me not. <a id="c8_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Which of you convicteth me of sin? If I say truth, why do ye not believe me? <a id="c8_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> He that is of God heareth the words of God: for this cause ye hear them not, because ye are not of God. <a id="c8_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> The Jews answered and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a demon? <a id="c8_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Jesus answered, I have not a demon; but I honor my Father, and ye dishonor me. <a id="c8_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth. <a id="c8_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my word, he shall never see death. <a id="c8_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> The Jews said unto him, Now we know that thou hast a demon. Abraham died, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my word, he shall never taste of death. <a id="c8_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Art thou greater than our father Abraham, who died? and the prophets died: whom makest thou thyself? <a id="c8_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing: it is my Father that glorifieth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God; <a id="c8_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> and ye have not known him: but I know him; and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be like unto you, a liar: but I know him, and keep his word. <a id="c8_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day; and he saw it, and was glad. <a id="c8_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> The Jews therefore said unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? <a id="c8_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was born, I am. <a id="c8_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> They took up stones therefore to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple.</p>

</body>
</html>