<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the fold of the sheep, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When he hath put forth all his own, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This parable spake Jesus unto them: but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus therefore said unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All that came before me are thieves and robbers: but the sheep did not hear them. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I am the door; by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and go out, and shall find pasture. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The thief cometh not, but that he may steal, and kill, and destroy: I came that they may have life, and may have it abundantly. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd layeth down his life for the sheep. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He that is a hireling, and not a shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, beholdeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth, and the wolf snatcheth them, and scattereth them: <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> he fleeth because he is a hireling, and careth not for the sheep. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am the good shepherd; and I know mine own, and mine own know me, <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> even as the Father knoweth me, and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice: and they shall become one flock, one shepherd. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore doth the Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it again. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No one taketh it away from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment received I from my Father. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> There arose a division again among the Jews because of these words. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And many of them said, He hath a demon, and is mad; why hear ye him? <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Others said, These are not the sayings of one possessed with a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And it was the feast of the dedication at Jerusalem: <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> it was winter; and Jesus was walking in the temple in Solomon’s porch. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The Jews therefore came round about him, and said unto him, How long dost thou hold us in suspense? If thou art the Christ, tell us plainly. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believe not: the works that I do in my Father’s name, these bear witness of me. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep. <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me: <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, and no one shall snatch them out of my hand. <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> My Father, who hath given them unto me, is greater than all; and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father’s hand. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I and the Father are one. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The Jews took up stones again to stone him. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Jesus answered them, Many good works have I showed you from the Father; for which of those works do ye stone me? <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The Jews answered him, For a good work we stone thee not, but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God. <a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, ye are gods? <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came (and the scripture cannot be broken), <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> say ye of him, whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God? <a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not. <a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But if I do them, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I in the Father. <a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> They sought again to take him: and he went forth out of their hand. <a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he went away again beyond the Jordan into the place where John was at the first baptizing; and there be abode. <a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And many came unto him; and they said, John indeed did no sign: but all things whatsoever John spake of this man were true. <a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And many believed on him there.</p>

</body>
</html>