<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These things spake Jesus; and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that the son may glorify thee: <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> even as thou gavest him authority over all flesh, that to all whom thou hast given him, he should give eternal life. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this is life eternal, that they should know thee the only true God, and him whom thou didst send, even Jesus Christ. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I glorified thee on the earth, having accomplished the work which thou hast given me to do. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now, Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I manifested thy name unto the men whom thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them to me; and they have kept thy word. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now they know that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are from thee: <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for the words which thou gavest me I have given unto them; and they received them, and knew of a truth that I came forth from thee, and they believed that thou didst send me. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for those whom thou hast given me; for they are thine: <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and all things that are mine are thine, and thine are mine: and I am glorified in them. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I am no more in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name which thou hast given me, that they may be one, even as we are. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While I was with them, I kept them in thy name which thou hast given me: and I guarded them, and not one of them perished, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But now I come to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have given them thy word; and the world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I pray not that thou shouldest take them from the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil one. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They are not of the world even as I am not of the world. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sanctify them in the truth: thy word is truth. <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As thou didst send me into the world, even so sent I them into the world. <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. <a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Neither for these only do I pray, but for them also that believe on me through their word; <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that they may all be one; even as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be in us: that the world may believe that thou didst send me. <a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the glory which thou hast given me I have given unto them; that they may be one, even as we are one; <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I in them, and thou in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may know that thou didst send me, and lovedst them, even as thou lovedst me. <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Father, I desire that they also whom thou hast given me be with me where I am, that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world. <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> O righteous Father, the world knew thee not, but I knew thee; and these knew that thou didst send me; <a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and I made known unto them thy name, and will make it known; that the love wherewith thou lovedst me may be in them, and I in them.</p>

</body>
</html>