<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (although Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples), <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> he left Judea, and departed again into Galilee. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he must needs pass through Samaria. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So he cometh to a city of Samaria, called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph: <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Jacob’s well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus by the well. It was about the sixth hour. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For his disciples were gone away into the city to buy food. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The Samaritan woman therefore saith unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, who am a Samaritan woman? (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.) <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus answered and said unto unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: whence then hast thou that living water? <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his sons, and his cattle? <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jesus answered and said unto her, Every one that drinketh of this water shall thirst again: <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall become in him a well of water springing up unto eternal life. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come all the way hither to draw. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The woman answered and said unto him, I have no husband. Jesus saith unto her, Thou saidst well, I have no husband: <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: this hast thou said truly. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when neither in this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, shall ye worship the Father. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Ye worship that which ye know not: we worship that which we know; for salvation is from the Jews. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth: for such doth the Father seek to be his worshippers. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship in spirit and truth. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh (he that is called Christ): when he is come, he will declare unto us all things. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And upon this came his disciples; and they marvelled that he was speaking with a woman; yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why speakest thou with her? <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> So the woman left her waterpot, and went away into the city, and saith to the people, <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Come, see a man, who told me all things that ever I did: can this be the Christ? <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They went out of the city, and were coming to him. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> In the mean while the disciples prayed him, saying, Rabbi, eat. <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The disciples therefore said one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to accomplish his work. <a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh the harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields, that they are white already unto harvest. <a id="c4_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal; that he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. <a id="c4_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For herein is the saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth. <a id="c4_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I sent you to reap that whereon ye have not labored: others have labored, and ye are entered into their labor. <a id="c4_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And from that city many of the Samaritans believed on him because of the word of the woman, who testified, He told me all things that ever I did. <a id="c4_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> So when the Samaritans came unto him, they besought him to abide with them: and he abode there two days. <a id="c4_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And many more believed because of his word; <a id="c4_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and they said to the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy speaking: for we have heard for ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world. <a id="c4_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And after the two days he went forth from thence into Galilee. <a id="c4_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honor in his own country. <a id="c4_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> So when he came into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him, having seen all the things that he did in Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast. <a id="c4_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He came therefore again unto Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum. <a id="c4_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son; for he was at the point of death. <a id="c4_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Jesus therefore said unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will in no wise believe. <a id="c4_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die. <a id="c4_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. The man believed the word that Jesus spake unto him, and he went his way. <a id="c4_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And as he was now going down, his servants met him, saying, that his son lived. <a id="c4_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> So he inquired of them the hour when he began to amend. They said therefore unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. <a id="c4_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> So the father knew that it was at that hour in which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house. <a id="c4_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> This is again the second sign that Jesus did, having come out of Judaea into Galilee.</p>

</body>
</html>