<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after five days the high priest Ananias came down with certain elders, and with an orator, one Tertullus; and they informed the governor against Paul. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when he was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, Seeing that by thee we enjoy much peace, and that by the providence evils are corrected for this nation, <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> we accept it in all ways and in all places, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But, that I be not further tedious unto thee, I entreat thee to hear us of thy clemency a few words. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of insurrections among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes: <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who moreover assayed to profane the temple: on whom also we laid hold: and we would have judged him according to our law. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the chief captain Lysias came, and with great violence took him away out of our hands, <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> commanding his accusers to come before thee. from whom thou wilt be able, by examining him thyself, to take knowledge of all these things whereof we accuse him. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the Jews also joined in the charge, affirming that these things were so. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when the governor had beckoned unto him to speak, Paul answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation, I cheerfully make my defense: <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Seeing that thou canst take knowledge that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship at Jerusalem: <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and neither in the temple did they find me disputing with any man or stirring up a crowd, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city. <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Neither can they prove to thee the things whereof they now accuse me. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But this I confess unto thee, that after the Way which they call a sect, so serve I the God of our fathers, believing all things which are according to the law, and which are written in the prophets; <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> having hope toward God, which these also themselves look for, that there shall be a resurrection both of the just and unjust. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Herein I also exercise myself to have a conscience void of offence toward God and men always. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now after some years I came to bring alms to my nation, and offerings: <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> amidst which they found me purified in the temple, with no crowd, nor yet with tumult: but there were certain Jews from Asia-- <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> who ought to have been here before thee, and to make accusation, if they had aught against me. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Or else let these men themselves say what wrong-doing they found when I stood before the council, <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> except it be for this one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the resurrection of the dead I am called in question before you this day. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Felix, having more exact knowledge concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, When Lysias the chief captain shall come down, I will determine your matter. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he gave order to the centurion that he should be kept in charge, and should have indulgence; and not to forbid any of his friends to minister unto him. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But after certain days, Felix came with Drusilla, his wife, who was a Jewess, and sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ Jesus. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And as he reasoned of righteousness, and self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix was terrified, and answered, Go thy way for this time; and when I have a convenient season, I will call thee unto me. <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He hoped withal that money would be given him of Paul: wherefore also he sent for him the oftener, and communed with him. <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But when two years were fulfilled, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus; and desiring to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul in bonds.</p>

</body>
</html>