<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Being therefore justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ; <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> through whom also we have had our access by faith into this grace wherein we stand; and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And not only so, but we also rejoice in our tribulations: knowing that tribulation worketh stedfastness; <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and stedfastness, approvedness; and approvedness, hope: <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and hope putteth not to shame; because the love of God hath been shed abroad in our hearts through the Holy Spirit which was given unto us. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For while we were yet weak, in due season Christ died for the ungodly. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: for peradventure for the good man some one would even dare to die. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But God commendeth his own love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Much more then, being now justified by his blood, shall we be saved from the wrath of God through him. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For if, while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, shall we be saved by his life; <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and not only so, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, as through one man sin entered into the world, and death through sin; and so death passed unto all men, for that all sinned:-- <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for until the law sin was in the world; but sin is not imputed when there is no law. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Nevertheless death reigned from Adam until Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the likeness of Adam’s transgression, who is a figure of him that was to come. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But not as the trespass, so also is the free gift. For if by the trespass of the one the many died, much more did the grace of God, and the gift by the grace of the one man, Jesus Christ, abound unto the many. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And not as through one that sinned, so is the gift: for the judgment came of one unto condemnation, but the free gift came of many trespasses unto justification. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For if, by the trespass of the one, death reigned through the one; much more shall they that receive the abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness reign in life through the one, even Jesus Christ. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So then as through one trespass the judgment came unto all men to condemnation; even so through one act of righteousness <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For as through the one man’s disobedience the many were made sinners, even so through the obedience of the one shall the many be made righteous. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the law came in besides, that the trespass might abound; but where sin abounded, grace did abound more exceedingly: <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that, as sin reigned in death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>