<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God forbid. We who died to sin, how shall we any longer live therein? <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Or are ye ignorant that all we who were baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We were buried therefore with him through baptism unto death: that like as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we also might walk in newness of life. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For if we have become united with him in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection; <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away, that so we should no longer be in bondage to sin; <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for he that hath died is justified from sin. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But if we died with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him; <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death no more hath dominion over him. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the death that he died, he died unto sin once: but the life that he liveth, he liveth unto God. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Even so reckon ye also yourselves to be dead unto sin, but alive unto God in Christ Jesus. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey the lusts thereof: <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> neither present your members unto sin as instruments of unrighteousness; but present yourselves unto God, as alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under law, but under grace. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What then? shall we sin, because we are not under law, but under grace? God forbid. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Know ye not, that to whom ye present yourselves as servants unto obedience, his servants ye are whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness? <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But thanks be to God, that, whereas ye were servants of sin, ye became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching whereunto ye were delivered; <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and being made free from sin, ye became servants of righteousness. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye presented your members as servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity, even so now present your members as servants to righteousness unto sanctification. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For when ye were servants of sin, ye were free in regard of righteousness. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> What fruit then had ye at that time in the things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But now being made free from sin and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto sanctification, and the end eternal life. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the wages of sin is death; but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>