<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> What advantage then hath the Jew? or what is the profit of circumcision? <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Much every way: first of all, that they were intrusted with the oracles of God. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For what if some were without faith? shall their want of faith make of none effect the faithfulness of God? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> God forbid: yea, let God be found true, but every man a liar; as it is written, That thou mightest be justified in thy words, And mightest prevail when thou comest into judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if our righteousness commendeth the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous who visiteth with wrath? (I speak after the manner of men.) <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God forbid: for then how shall God judge the world? <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if the truth of God through my lie abounded unto his glory, why am I also still judged as a sinner? <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and why not (as we are slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say), Let us do evil, that good may come? whose condemnation is just. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What then? are we better than they? No, in no wise: for we before laid to the charge both of Jews and Greeks, that they are all under sin; <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> as it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one; <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is none that understandeth, There is none that seeketh after God; <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They have all turned aside, they are together become unprofitable; There is none that doeth good, no, not, so much as one: <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Their throat is an open sepulchre; With their tongues they have used deceit: The poison of asps is under their lips: <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness: <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Their feet are swift to shed blood; <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Destruction and misery are in their ways; <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the way of peace have they not known: <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There is no fear of God before their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it speaketh to them that are under the law; that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may be brought under the judgment of God: <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> because by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified in his sight; for through the law cometh the knowledge of sin. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But now apart from the law a righteousness of God hath been manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> even the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ unto all them that believe; for there is no distinction; <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for all have sinned, and fall short of the glory of God; <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus: <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> whom God set forth to be a propitiation, through faith, in his blood, to show his righteousness because of the passing over of the sins done aforetime, in the forbearance of God; <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for the showing, I say, of his righteousness at this present season: that he might himself be just, and the justifier of him that hath faith in Jesus. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Where then is the glorying? It is excluded. By what manner of law? of works? Nay: but by a law of faith. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> We reckon therefore that a man is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Or is God the God of Jews only? is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yea, of Gentiles also: <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> if so be that God is one, and he shall justify the circumcision by faith, and the uncircumcision through faith. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Do we then make the law of none effect through faith? God forbid: nay, we establish the law.</p>

</body>
</html>