<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I say then, Did God cast off his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God did not cast off his people which he foreknew. Or know ye not what the scripture saith of Elijah? how he pleadeth with God against Israel: <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lord, they have killed thy prophets, they have digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have left for myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to Baal. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But if it is by grace, it is no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What then? that which Israel seeketh for, that he obtained not; but the election obtained it, and the rest were hardened: <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> according as it is written, God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear, unto this very day. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David saith, Let their table be made a snare, and a trap, And a stumblingblock, and a recompense unto them: <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see, And bow thou down their back always.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I say then, Did they stumble that they might fall? God forbid: but by their fall salvation is come unto the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now if their fall, is the riches of the world, and their loss the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fulness? <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But I speak to you that are Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle of Gentiles, I glorify my ministry; <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> if by any means I may provoke to jealousy them that are my flesh, and may save some of them. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For if the casting away of them is the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiving of them be, but life from the dead? <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if the firstfruit is holy, so is the lump: and if the root is holy, so are the branches. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if some of the branches were broken off, and thou, being a wild olive, wast grafted in among them, and didst become partaker with them of the root of the fatness of the olive tree; <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> glory not over the branches: but if thou gloriest, it is not thou that bearest the root, but the root thee. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou wilt say then, Branches were broken off, that I might be grafted in. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Well; by their unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by thy faith. Be not highminded, but fear: <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> for if God spared not the natural branches, neither will he spare thee. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold then the goodness and severity of God: toward them that fell, severity; but toward thee, God’s goodness, if thou continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they also, if they continue not in their unbelief, shall be grafted in: for God is able to graft them in again. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For if thou wast cut out of that which is by nature a wild olive tree, and wast grafted contrary to nature into a good olive tree; how much more shall these, which are the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree? <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I would not, brethren, have you ignorant of this mystery, lest ye be wise in your own conceits, that a hardening in part hath befallen Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in; <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and so all Israel shall be saved: even as it is written, There shall come out of Zion the Deliverer; He shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob: <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And this is my covenant unto them, When I shall take away their sins.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> As touching the gospel, they are enemies for your sake: but as touching the election, they are beloved for the fathers’ sake. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For the gifts and the calling of God are not repented of. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For as ye in time past were disobedient to God, but now have obtained mercy by their disobedience, <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> even so have these also now been disobedient, that by the mercy shown to you they also may now obtain mercy. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For God hath shut up all unto disobedience, that he might have mercy upon all. <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past tracing out! <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor? <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For of him, and through him, and unto him, are all things. To him be the glory for ever. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>