<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now we that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let each one of us please his neighbor for that which is good, unto edifying. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Christ also pleased not himself; but, as it is written, The reproaches of them that reproached thee fell upon me. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that through patience and through comfort of the scriptures we might have hope. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now the God of patience and of comfort grant you to be of the same mind one with another according to Christ Jesus: <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that with one accord ye may with one mouth glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore receive ye one another, even as Christ also received you, to the glory of God. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I say that Christ hath been made a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, that he might confirm the promises <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it is written, Therefore will I give praise unto thee among the Gentiles, And sing unto thy name.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And again he saith, Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And again, Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles; And let all the peoples praise him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And again, Isaiah saith, There shall be the root of Jesse, And he that ariseth to rule over the Gentiles; On him shall the Gentiles hope.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope, in the power of the Holy Spirit. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But I write the more boldly unto you in some measure, as putting you again in remembrance, because of the grace that was given me of God, <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> that I should be a minister of Christ Jesus unto the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be made acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Spirit. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I have therefore my glorifying in Christ Jesus in things pertaining to God. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I will not dare to speak of any things save those which Christ wrought through me, for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and deed, <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Holy Spirit; so that from Jerusalem, and round about even unto Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ; <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> yea, making it my aim so to preach the gospel, not where Christ was already named, that I might not build upon another man’s foundation; <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but, as it is written, They shall see, to whom no tidings of him came, And they who have not heard shall understand.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wherefore also I was hindered these many times from coming to you: <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> but now, having no more any place in these regions, and having these many years a longing to come unto you, <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> whensoever I go unto Spain (for I hope to see you in my journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, if first in some measure I shall have been satisfied with your company)-- <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but now, I say, I go unto Jerusalem, ministering unto the saints. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For it hath been the good pleasure of Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain contribution for the poor among the saints that are at Jerusalem. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Yea, it hath been their good pleasure; and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, they owe it to them also to minister unto them in carnal things. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> When therefore I have accomplished this, and have sealed to them this fruit, I will go on by you unto Spain. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I know that, when I come unto you, I shall come in the fulness of the blessing of Christ. <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now I beseech you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me in your prayers to God for me; <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> that I may be delivered from them that are disobedient in Judaea, and that my ministration which I have for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints; <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> that I may come unto you in joy through the will of God, and together with you find rest. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>