<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And be not fashioned according to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, and ye may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I say, through the grace that was given me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think as to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to each man a measure of faith. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For even as we have many members in one body, and all the members have not the same office: <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> so we, who are many, are one body in Christ, and severally members one of another. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And having gifts differing according to the grace that was given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of our faith; <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> or ministry, let us give ourselves to our ministry; or he that teacheth, to his teaching; <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> or he that exhorteth, to his exhorting: he that giveth, let him do it with liberality; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that showeth mercy, with cheerfulness. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In love of the brethren be tenderly affectioned one to another; in honor preferring one another; <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> in diligence not slothful; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord; <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing stedfastly in prayer; <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> communicating to the necessities of the saints; given to hospitality. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Bless them that persecute you; bless, and curse not. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Rejoice with them that rejoice; weep with them that weep. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Be of the same mind one toward another. Set not your mind on high things, but condescend to things that are lowly. Be not wise in your own conceits. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Render to no man evil for evil. Take thought for things honorable in the sight of all men. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If it be possible, as much as in you lieth, be at peace with all men. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Avenge not yourselves, beloved, but give place unto the wrath of God: for it is written, Vengeance belongeth unto me; I will recompense, saith the Lord. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him to drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head. <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.</p>

</body>
</html>