<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And working together with him we entreat also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (for he saith, At an acceptable time I hearkened unto thee, And in a day of salvation did I succor thee: behold, now is the acceptable time; behold, now is the day of salvation):</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> giving no occasion of stumbling in anything, that our ministration be not blamed; <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but in everything commending ourselves, as ministers of God, in much patience, in afflictions, in necessities, in distresses, <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> in stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in watchings, in fastings; <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> in pureness, in knowledge, in long suffering, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in love unfeigned, <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> by glory and dishonor, by evil report and good report; as deceivers, and yet true; <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as chastened, and not killed; <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Our mouth is open unto you, O Corinthians, our heart is enlarged. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ye are not straitened in us, but ye are straitened in your own affections. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now for a recompense in like kind (I speak as unto my children), be ye also enlarged. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Be not unequally yoked with unbelievers: for what fellowship have righteousness and iniquity? or what communion hath light with darkness? <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what portion hath a believer with an unbeliever? <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And what agreement hath a temple of God with idols? for we are a temple of the living God; even as God said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Wherefore Come ye out from among them, and be ye separate,</p>

<p>And touch no unclean thing; And I will receive you, <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And will be to you a Father, And ye shall be to me sons and daughters,</p>

</body>
</html>