<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Put them in mind to be in subjection to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready unto every good work, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to speak evil of no man, not to be contentious, to be gentle, showing all meekness toward all men. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we also once were foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, hating one another. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But when the kindness of God our Saviour, and his love toward man, appeared, <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> not by works done in righteousness, which we did ourselves, but according to his mercy he saved us, through the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Spirit, <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> which he poured out upon us richly, through Jesus Christ our Saviour; <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> that, being justified by his grace, we might be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Faithful is the saying, and concerning these things I desire that thou affirm confidently, to the end that they who have believed God may be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men: <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but shun foolish questionings, and genealogies, and strifes, and fightings about law; for they are unprofitable and vain. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A factious man after a first and second admonition refuse; <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> knowing that such a one is perverted, and sinneth, being self-condemned. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, give diligence to come unto me to Nicopolis: for there I have determined to winter. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Set forward Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And let our people also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All that are with me salute thee. Salute them that love us in faith. Grace be with you all.</p>

</body>
</html>