<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things that were heard, lest haply we drift away from them. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if the word spoken through angels proved stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> how shall we escape, if we neglect so great a salvation? which having at the first been spoken through the Lord, was confirmed unto us by them that heard; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> God also bearing witness with them, both by signs and wonders, and by manifold powers, and by gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to his own will. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For not unto angels did he subject the world to come, whereof we speak. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But one hath somewhere testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? Or the son of man, that thou visitest him? <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; Thou crownedst him with glory and honor, And didst set him over the works of thy hands: <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou didst put all things in subjection under his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But we behold him who hath been made a little lower than the angels, even Jesus, because of the suffering of death crowned with glory and honor, that by the grace of God he should taste of death for every man. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For it became him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the author of their salvation perfect through sufferings. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For both he that sanctifieth and they that are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, In the midst of the congregation will I sing thy praise.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold, I and the children whom God hath given me. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Since then the children are sharers in flesh and blood, he also himself in like manner partook of the same; that through death he might bring to nought him that had the power of death, that is, the devil; <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and might deliver all them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For verily not to angels doth he give help, but he giveth help to the seed of Abraham. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Wherefore it behooved him in all things to be made like unto his brethren, that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succor them that are tempted.</p>

</body>
</html>