<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let love of the brethren continue. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Forget not to show love unto strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; them that are illtreated, as being yourselves also in the body. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let marriage be had in honor among all, and let the bed be undefiled: for fornicators and adulterers God will judge. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Be ye free from the love of money; content with such things as ye have: for himself hath said, I will in no wise fail thee, neither will I in any wise forsake thee. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So that with good courage we say, The Lord is my helper; I will not fear: What shall man do unto me?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember them that had the rule over you, men that spake unto you the word of God; and considering the issue of their life, imitate their faith. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and to-day, yea and for ever. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be not carried away by divers and strange teachings: for it is good that the heart be established by grace; not by meats, wherein they that occupied themselves were not profited. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat that serve the tabernacle. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the holy place by the high priest as an offering for sin, are burned without the camp. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people through his own blood, suffered without the gate. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let us therefore go forth unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we have not here an abiding city, but we seek after the city which is to come. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Through him then let us offer up a sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of lips which make confession to his name. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit to them: for they watch in behalf of your souls, as they that shall give account; that they may do this with joy, and not with grief: for this were unprofitable for you. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Pray for us: for we are persuaded that we have a good conscience, desiring to live honorably in all things. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I exhort you the more exceedingly to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great shepherd of the sheep with the blood of an eternal covenant, <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> make you perfect in every good thing to do his will, working in us that which is well-pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be the glory for ever and ever. Amen. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I exhort you, brethren, bear with the word of exhortation, for I have written unto you in few words. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Know ye that our brother Timothy hath been set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Grace be with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>