<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now in the things which we are saying the chief point is this: We have such a high priest, who sat down on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens, <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> a minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, not man. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is necessary that this high priest also have somewhat to offer. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, seeing there are those who offer the gifts according to the law; <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> who serve that which is a copy and shadow of the heavenly things, even as Moses is warned of God when he is about to make the tabernacle: for, See, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern that was showed thee in the mount. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But now hath he obtained a ministry the more excellent, by so much as he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which hath been enacted upon better promises. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For if that first covenant had been faultless, then would no place have been sought for a second. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, That I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah; <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers In the day that I took them by the hand to lead them forth out of the land of Egypt; For they continued not in my covenant, And I regarded them not, saith the Lord. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel After those days, saith the Lord; I will put my laws into their mind, And on their heart also will I write them: And I will be to them a God, And they shall be to me a people: <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they shall not teach every man his fellow-citizen, And every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: For all shall know me, From the least to the greatest of them. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I will be merciful to their iniquities, And their sins will I remember no more.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In that he saith, A new covenant he hath made the first old. But that which is becoming old and waxeth aged is nigh unto vanishing away.</p>

</body>
</html>