<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore let us also, seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us, <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> looking unto Jesus the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising shame, and hath sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For consider him that hath endured such gainsaying of sinners against himself, that ye wax not weary, fainting in your souls. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin: <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and ye have forgotten the exhortation which reasoneth with you as with sons, My son, regard not lightly the chastening of the Lord, Nor faint when thou art reproved of him; <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, And scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> It is for chastening that ye endure; God dealeth with you as with sons; for what son is there whom his father chasteneth not? <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But if ye are without chastening, whereof all have been made partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Furthermore, we had the fathers of our flesh to chasten us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live? <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For they indeed for a few days chastened us as seemed good to them; but he for our profit, that we may be partakers of his holiness. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All chastening seemeth for the present to be not joyous but grievous; yet afterward it yieldeth peaceable fruit unto them that have been exercised thereby, even the fruit of righteousness. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore lift up the hands that hang down, and the palsied knees; <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and make straight paths for your feet, that that which is lame be not turned out of the way, but rather be healed. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Follow after peace with all men, and the sanctification without which no man shall see the Lord: <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> looking carefully lest there be any man that falleth short of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby the many be defiled; <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> lest there be any fornication, or profane person, as Esau, who for one mess of meat sold his own birthright. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For ye know that even when he afterward desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected; for he found no place for a change of mind in his father, though he sought it diligently with tears. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For ye are not come unto a mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, and unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest, <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they that heard entreated that no word more should be spoken unto them; <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for they could not endure that which was enjoined, If even a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned; <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and so fearful was the appearance, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake: <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> but ye are come unto mount Zion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable hosts of angels, <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> to the general assembly and church of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect, <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaketh better than that of Abel. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not when they refused him that warned them on earth, much more shall not we escape who turn away from him that warneth from heaven: <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more will I make to tremble not the earth only, but also the heaven. <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And this word, Yet once more, signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that have been made, that those things which are not shaken may remain. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Wherefore, receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us have grace, whereby we may offer service well-pleasing to God with reverence and awe: <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> for our God is a consuming fire.</p>

</body>
</html>