<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let us fear therefore, lest haply, a promise being left of entering into his rest, any one of you should seem to have come short of it. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For indeed we have had good tidings preached unto us, even as also they: but the word of hearing did not profit them, because it was not united by faith with them that heard. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we who have believed do enter into that rest; even as he hath said, As I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For he hath said somewhere of the seventh day on this wise, And God rested on the seventh day from all his works; <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and in this place again, They shall not enter into my rest.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seeing therefore it remaineth that some should enter thereinto, and they to whom the good tidings were before preached failed to enter in because of disobedience, <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> he again defineth a certain day, To-day, saying in David so long a time afterward (even as hath been said before), To-day if ye shall hear his voice, Harden not your hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For if Joshua had given them rest, he would not have spoken afterward of another day. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There remaineth therefore a sabbath rest for the people of God. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he that is entered into his rest hath himself also rested from his works, as God did from his. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let us therefore give diligence to enter into that rest, that no man fall after the same example of disobedience. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the word of God is living, and active, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and piercing even to the dividing of soul and spirit, of both joints and marrow, and quick to discern the thoughts and intents of the heart. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And there is no creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and laid open before the eyes of him with whom we have to do. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Having then a great high priest, who hath passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For we have not a high priest that cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but one that hath been in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let us therefore draw near with boldness unto the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and may find grace to help us in time of need.</p>

</body>
</html>