<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My brethren, hold not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if there come into your synagogue a man with a gold ring, in fine clothing, and there come in also a poor man in vile clothing; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and ye have regard to him that weareth the fine clothing, and say, Sit thou here in a good place; and ye say to the poor man, Stand thou there, or sit under my footstool; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Do ye not make distinctions among yourselves, and become judges with evil thoughts? <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hearken, my beloved brethren; did not God choose them that are poor as to the world to be rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to them that love him? <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But ye have dishonored the poor man. Do not the rich oppress you, and themselves drag you before the judgment-seats? <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Do not they blaspheme the honorable name by which ye are called? <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Howbeit if ye fulfil the royal law, according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself, ye do well: <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but if ye have respect of persons, ye commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet stumble in one point, he is become guilty of all. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if thou dost not commit adultery, but killest, thou art become a transgressor of the law. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So speak ye, and so do, as men that are to be judged by a law of liberty. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For judgment is without mercy to him that hath showed no mercy: mercy glorieth against judgment. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What doth it profit, my brethren, if a man say he hath faith, but have not works? can that faith save him? <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If a brother or sister be naked and in lack of daily food, <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and one of you say unto them, Go in peace, be ye warmed and filled; and yet ye give them not the things needful to the body; what doth it profit? <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Even so faith, if it have not works, is dead in itself. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yea, a man will say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: show me thy faith apart from thy works, and I by my works will show thee my faith. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou believest that God is one; thou doest well: the demons also believe, and shudder. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith apart from works is barren? <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Was not Abraham our father justified by works, in that he offered up Isaac his son upon the altar? <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou seest that faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect; <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and the scripture was fulfilled which saith, And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned unto him for righteousness; and he was called the friend of God. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Ye see that by works a man is justified, and not only by faith. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And in like manner was not also Rahab the harlot justified by works, in that she received the messengers, and sent them out another way? <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, even so faith apart from works is dead.</p>

</body>
</html>