<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are of the Dispersion, greeting. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Count it all joy, my brethren, when ye fall into manifold temptations; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Knowing that the proving of your faith worketh patience. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And let patience have its perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, lacking in nothing. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if any of you lacketh wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all liberally and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But let him ask in faith, nothing doubting: for he that doubteth is like the surge of the sea driven by the wind and tossed. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> a doubleminded man, unstable in all his ways. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But let the brother of low degree glory in his high estate: <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the rich, in that he is made low: because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the sun ariseth with the scorching wind, and withereth the grass: and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth: so also shall the rich man fade away in his goings. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the man that endureth temptation; for when he hath been approved, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord promised to them that love him. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God; for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempteth no man: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but each man is tempted, when he is drawn away by his own lust, and enticed. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the lust, when it hath conceived, beareth sin: and the sin, when it is fullgrown, bringeth forth death. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Be not deceived, my beloved brethren. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom can be no variation, neither shadow that is cast by turning. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Ye know this, my beloved brethren. But let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath: <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Wherefore putting away all filthiness and overflowing of wickedness, receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deluding your own selves. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For if any one is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a mirror: <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for he beholdeth himself, and goeth away, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But he that looketh into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and so continueth, being not a hearer that forgetteth but a doer that worketh, this man shall be blessed in his doing. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If any man thinketh himself to be religious, while he bridleth not his tongue but deceiveth his heart, this man’s religion is vain. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Pure religion and undefiled before our God and Father is this, to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unspotted from the world.</p>

</body>
</html>