<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whence come wars and whence come fightings among you? come they not hence, even of your pleasures that war in your members? <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye lust, and have not: ye kill, and covet, and cannot obtain: ye fight and war; ye have not, because ye ask not. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may spend it in your pleasures. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ye adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore would be a friend of the world maketh himself an enemy of God. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or think ye that the scripture speaketh in vain? Doth the spirit which he made to dwell in us long unto envying? <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he giveth more grace. Wherefore the scripture saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be subject therefore unto God; but resist the devil, and he will flee from you. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye doubleminded. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall exalt you. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Speak not one against another, brethren. He that speaketh against a brother, or judgeth his brother, speaketh against the law, and judgeth the law: but if thou judgest the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> One only is the lawgiver and judge, even he who is able to save and to destroy: but who art thou that judgest thy neighbor? <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Come now, ye that say, To-day or to-morrow we will go into this city, and spend a year there, and trade, and get gain: <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. What is your life? For ye are a vapor, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For that ye ought to say, If the Lord will, we shall both live, and do this or that. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now ye glory in your vauntings: all such glorying is evil. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> To him therefore that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin.</p>

</body>
</html>