<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 12</h2>

<a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee: <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing: <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram <em>was</em> seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite <em>was</em> then in the land. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who appeared unto him. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, <em>having</em> Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name of the LORD. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine <em>was</em> grievous in the land. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou <em>art</em> a fair woman to look upon: <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This <em>is</em> his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Say, I pray thee, thou <em>art</em> my sister: that it may be well with me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she <em>was</em> very fair. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses, and camels. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram's wife. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What <em>is</em> this <em>that</em> thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she <em>was</em> thy wife? <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Why saidst thou, She <em>is</em> my sister? so I might have taken her to me to wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take <em>her</em>, and go thy way. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Pharaoh commanded <em>his</em> men concerning him: and they sent him away, and his wife, and all that he had.

</body>
</html>