<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 46</h2>

<a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. <a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here <em>am</em> I. <a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said, I <em>am</em> God, the God of thy father: fear not to go down into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation: <a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up <em>again</em>: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes. <a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him. <a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him: <a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> His sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt. <a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And these <em>are</em> the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn. <a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi. <a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman. <a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. <a id="c46_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zerah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul. <a id="c46_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron. <a id="c46_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel. <a id="c46_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> These <em>be</em> the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in Padanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his daughters <em>were</em> thirty and three. <a id="c46_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli. <a id="c46_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and Serah their sister: and the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel. <a id="c46_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> These <em>are</em> the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, <em>even</em> sixteen souls. <a id="c46_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife; Joseph, and Benjamin. <a id="c46_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him. <a id="c46_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the sons of Benjamin <em>were</em> Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard. <a id="c46_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> These <em>are</em> the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all the souls <em>were</em> fourteen. <a id="c46_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the sons of Dan; Hushim. <a id="c46_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem. <a id="c46_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These <em>are</em> the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls <em>were</em> seven. <a id="c46_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls <em>were</em> threescore and six; <a id="c46_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt, <em>were</em> two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came into Egypt, <em>were</em> threescore and ten. <a id="c46_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his face unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen. <a id="c46_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him; and he fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while. <a id="c46_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen thy face, because thou <em>art</em> yet alive. <a id="c46_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his father's house, I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and my father's house, which <em>were</em> in the land of Canaan, are come unto me; <a id="c46_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the men <em>are</em> shepherds, for their trade hath been to feed cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have. <a id="c46_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and shall say, What <em>is</em> your occupation? <a id="c46_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> That ye shall say, Thy servants' trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now, both we, <em>and</em> also our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd <em>is</em> an abomination unto the Egyptians.

</body>
</html>