<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 47</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 47</h2>

<a id="c47_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have, are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they <em>are</em> in the land of Goshen. <a id="c47_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he took some of his brethren, <em>even</em> five men, and presented them unto Pharaoh. <a id="c47_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What <em>is</em> your occupation? And they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants <em>are</em> shepherds, both we, <em>and</em> also our fathers. <a id="c47_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They said moreover unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we come; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for the famine <em>is</em> sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen. <a id="c47_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee: <a id="c47_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The land of Egypt <em>is</em> before thee; in the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell; in the land of Goshen let them dwell: and if thou knowest <em>any</em> men of activity among them, then make them rulers over my cattle. <a id="c47_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh. <a id="c47_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old <em>art</em> thou? <a id="c47_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage <em>are</em> an hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years of my life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage. <a id="c47_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh. <a id="c47_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded. <a id="c47_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his father's household, with bread, according to <em>their</em> families. <a id="c47_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And <em>there was</em> no bread in all the land; for the famine <em>was</em> very sore, so that the land of Egypt and <em>all</em> the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine. <a id="c47_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought: and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house. <a id="c47_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread: for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth. <a id="c47_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your cattle, if money fail. <a id="c47_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them bread <em>in exchange</em> for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year. <a id="c47_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year, and said unto him, We will not hide <em>it</em> from my lord, how that our money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not ought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands: <a id="c47_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh: and give <em>us</em> seed, that we may live, and not die, that the land be not desolate. <a id="c47_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over them: so the land became Pharaoh's. <a id="c47_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And as for the people, he removed them to cities from <em>one</em> end of the borders of Egypt even to the <em>other</em> end thereof. <a id="c47_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had a portion <em>assigned them</em> of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands. <a id="c47_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, <em>here is</em> seed for you, and ye shall sow the land. <a id="c47_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give the fifth <em>part</em> unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households, and for food for your little ones. <a id="c47_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants. <a id="c47_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day, <em>that</em> Pharaoh should have the fifth <em>part</em>; except the land of the priests only, <em>which</em> became not Pharaoh's. <a id="c47_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen; and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multiplied exceedingly. <a id="c47_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so the whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years. <a id="c47_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the time drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called his son Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt: <a id="c47_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But I will lie with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their buryingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast said. <a id="c47_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israel bowed himself upon the bed's head.

</body>
</html>