<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering: <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen? <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee <em>shall be</em> his desire, and thou shalt rule over him. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the LORD said unto Cain, Where <em>is</em> Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not: <em>Am</em> I my brother's keeper? <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now <em>art</em> thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand; <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment <em>is</em> greater than I can bear. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, <em>that</em> every one that findeth me shall slay me. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one <em>was</em> Adah, and the name of the other Zillah. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and <em>of such as have</em> cattle. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And his brother's name <em>was</em> Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain <em>was</em> Naamah. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice; ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to my wounding, and a young man to my hurt. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth: For God, <em>said she</em>, hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.

</body>
</html>