<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 11</h2>

<a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn them throughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for morter. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top <em>may reach</em> unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the LORD said, Behold, the people <em>is</em> one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> These <em>are</em> the generations of Shem: Shem <em>was</em> an hundred years old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood: <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Now these <em>are</em> the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife <em>was</em> Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But Sarai was barren; she <em>had</em> no child. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran.

</body>
</html>