<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 39</h2>

<a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither. <a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian. <a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And his master saw that the LORD <em>was</em> with him, and that the LORD made all that he did to prosper in his hand. <a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all <em>that</em> he had he put into his hand. <a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it came to pass from the time <em>that</em> he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of the LORD was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field. <a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was <em>a</em> goodly <em>person</em>, and well favoured. <a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it came to pass after these things, that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me. <a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wotteth not what <em>is</em> with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to my hand; <a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>There is</em> none greater in this house than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because thou <em>art</em> his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God? <a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, <em>or</em> to be with her. <a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass about this time, that <em>Joseph</em> went into the house to do his business; and <em>there was</em> none of the men of the house there within. <a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out. <a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and was fled forth, <a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> That she called unto the men of her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice: <a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled, and got him out. <a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home. <a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to mock me: <a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled out. <a id="c39_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me; that his wrath was kindled. <a id="c39_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Joseph's master took him, and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners <em>were</em> bound: and he was there in the prison. <a id="c39_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison. <a id="c39_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that <em>were</em> in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer <em>of it</em>. <a id="c39_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing <em>that was</em> under his hand; because the LORD was with him, and <em>that</em> which he did, the LORD made <em>it</em> to prosper.

</body>
</html>