<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 44</h2>

<a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks <em>with</em> food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth. <a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken. <a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses. <a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> <em>And</em> when they were gone out of the city, <em>and</em> not <em>yet</em> far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good? <a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>Is</em> not this <em>it</em> in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing. <a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words. <a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing: <a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold? <a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen. <a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he said, Now also <em>let</em> it <em>be</em> according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless. <a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack. <a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he searched, <em>and</em> began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. <a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city. <a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; for he <em>was</em> yet there: and they fell before him on the ground. <a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Joseph said unto them, What deed <em>is</em> this that ye have done? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine? <a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants: behold, we <em>are</em> my lord's servants, both we, and <em>he</em> also with whom the cup is found. <a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said, God forbid that I should do so: <em>but</em> the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you, get you up in peace unto your father. <a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou <em>art</em> even as Pharaoh. <a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother? <a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him. <a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that I may set mine eyes upon him. <a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for <em>if</em> he should leave his father, <em>his father</em> would die. <a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more. <a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him the words of my lord. <a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And our father said, Go again, <em>and</em> buy us a little food. <a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man's face, except our youngest brother <em>be</em> with us. <a id="c44_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two <em>sons</em>: <a id="c44_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since: <a id="c44_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave. <a id="c44_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad <em>be</em> not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life; <a id="c44_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad <em>is</em> not <em>with us</em>, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave. <a id="c44_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever. <a id="c44_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren. <a id="c44_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad <em>be</em> not with me? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.

</body>
</html>