<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 25</h2>

<a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name <em>was</em> Keturah. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these <em>were</em> the children of Keturah. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And these <em>are</em> the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full <em>of years</em>; and was gathered to his people. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which <em>is</em> before Mamre; <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now these <em>are</em> the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham: <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And these <em>are</em> the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah: <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These <em>are</em> the sons of Ishmael, and these <em>are</em> their names, by their towns, and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And these <em>are</em> the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was gathered unto his people. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that <em>is</em> before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: <em>and</em> he died in the presence of all his brethren. <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And these <em>are</em> the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham begat Isaac: <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister to Laban the Syrian. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she <em>was</em> barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If <em>it be</em> so, why <em>am</em> I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD. <a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the LORD said unto her, Two nations <em>are</em> in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and <em>the one</em> people shall be stronger than <em>the other</em> people; and the elder shall serve the younger. <a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, <em>there were</em> twins in her womb. <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and they called his name Esau. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac <em>was</em> threescore years old when she bare them. <a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob <em>was</em> a plain man, dwelling in tents. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of <em>his</em> venison: but Rebekah loved Jacob. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he <em>was</em> faint: <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red <em>pottage</em>; for I <em>am</em> faint: therefore was his name called Edom. <a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright. <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Esau said, Behold, I <em>am</em> at the point to die: and what profit shall this birthright do to me? <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Jacob said, Swear to me this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised <em>his</em> birthright.

</body>
</html>