<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 20</h2>

<a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She <em>is</em> my sister: and Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him, Behold, thou <em>art but</em> a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken; for she <em>is</em> a man's wife. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, Lord, wilt thou slay also a righteous nation? <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Said he not unto me, She <em>is</em> my sister? and she, even she herself said, He <em>is</em> my brother: in the integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this. <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her. <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now therefore restore the man <em>his</em> wife; for he <em>is</em> a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore <em>her</em> not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that <em>are</em> thine. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were sore afraid. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing? <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God <em>is</em> not in this place; and they will slay me for my wife's sake. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And yet indeed <em>she is</em> my sister; she <em>is</em> the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father's house, that I said unto her, This <em>is</em> thy kindness which thou shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me, He <em>is</em> my brother. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and womenservants, and gave <em>them</em> unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Abimelech said, Behold, my land <em>is</em> before thee: dwell where it pleaseth thee. <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand <em>pieces</em> of silver: behold, he <em>is</em> to thee a covering of the eyes, unto all that <em>are</em> with thee, and with all <em>other</em>: thus she was reproved. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maidservants; and they bare <em>children</em>. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham's wife.

</body>
</html>