<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 21</h2>

<a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto Sarah as he had spoken. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as God had commanded him. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born unto him. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, <em>so that</em> all that hear will laugh with me. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should have given children suck? for I have born <em>him</em> a son in his old age. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast the <em>same</em> day that Isaac was weaned. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born unto Abraham, mocking. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, <em>even</em> with Isaac. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of his son. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation, because he <em>is</em> thy seed. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a bottle of water, and gave <em>it</em> unto Hagar, putting <em>it</em> on her shoulder, and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And she went, and sat her down over against <em>him</em> a good way off, as it were a bowshot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the child. And she sat over against <em>him</em>, and lift up her voice, and wept. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar? fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he <em>is</em>. <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I will make him a great nation. <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink. <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became an archer. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt. <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God <em>is</em> with thee in all that thou doest: <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now therefore swear unto me here by God that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son: <em>but</em> according to the kindness that I have done unto thee, thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Abraham said, I will swear. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away. <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing: neither didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I <em>of it</em>, but to day. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech; and both of them made a covenant. <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves. <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What <em>mean</em> these seven ewe lambs which thou hast set by themselves? <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he said, For <em>these</em> seven ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness unto me, that I have digged this well. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there they sware both of them. <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up, and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines. <a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And <em>Abraham</em> planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on the name of the LORD, the everlasting God. <a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines' land many days.

</body>
</html>