<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 10</h2>

<a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these <em>are</em> the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands; every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtecha: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah, <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Resen between Nineveh and Calah: the same <em>is</em> a great city. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim, <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and Caphtorim. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Canaan begat Sidon his firstborn, and Heth, <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These <em>are</em> the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their countries, <em>and</em> in their nations. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were <em>children</em> born. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one <em>was</em> Peleg; for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name <em>was</em> Joktan. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these <em>were</em> the sons of Joktan. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a mount of the east. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> These <em>are</em> the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These <em>are</em> the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.

</body>
</html>