<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I <em>am</em> thy shield, <em>and</em> thy exceeding great reward. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Abram said, Lord GOD, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house <em>is</em> this Eliezer of Damascus? <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo, one born in my house is mine heir. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And, behold, the word of the LORD <em>came</em> unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he said unto him, So shall thy seed be. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for righteousness. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he said unto him, I <em>am</em> the LORD that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said, Lord GOD, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtledove, and a young pigeon. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them away. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land <em>that is</em> not theirs, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years; <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried in a good old age. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for the iniquity of the Amorites <em>is</em> not yet full. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates: <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Kenites, and the Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites, <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Rephaims, <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.

</body>
</html>