<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 41</h2>

<a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river. <a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow. <a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the <em>other</em> kine upon the brink of the river. <a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke. <a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good. <a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung up after them. <a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, <em>it was</em> a dream. <a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled; and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but <em>there was</em> none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh. <a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day: <a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the captain of the guard's house, <em>both</em> me and the chief baker: <a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream. <a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And <em>there was</em> there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret. <a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged. <a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved <em>himself</em>, and changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh. <a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and <em>there is</em> none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, <em>that</em> thou canst understand a dream to interpret it. <a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, <em>It is</em> not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace. <a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the river: <a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a meadow: <a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness: <a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the lean and the ill favoured kine did eat up the first seven fat kine: <a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And when they had eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they <em>were</em> still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke. <a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good: <a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, <em>and</em> blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them: <a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told <em>this</em> unto the magicians; but <em>there was</em> none that could declare <em>it</em> to me. <a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh <em>is</em> one: God hath shewed Pharaoh what he <em>is</em> about to do. <a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The seven good kine <em>are</em> seven years; and the seven good ears <em>are</em> seven years: the dream <em>is</em> one. <a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them <em>are</em> seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine. <a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> This <em>is</em> the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God <em>is</em> about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh. <a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt: <a id="c41_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And there shall arise after them seven years of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the famine shall consume the land; <a id="c41_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it <em>shall be</em> very grievous. <a id="c41_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; <em>it is</em> because the thing <em>is</em> established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. <a id="c41_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt. <a id="c41_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let Pharaoh do <em>this</em>, and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years. <a id="c41_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities. <a id="c41_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land perish not through the famine. <a id="c41_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants. <a id="c41_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find <em>such a one</em> as this <em>is</em>, a man in whom the Spirit of God <em>is</em>? <a id="c41_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, <em>there is</em> none so discreet and wise as thou <em>art</em>: <a id="c41_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will I be greater than thou. <a id="c41_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt. <a id="c41_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck; <a id="c41_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he made him <em>ruler</em> over all the land of Egypt. <a id="c41_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I <em>am</em> Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt. <a id="c41_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gave him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And Joseph went out over <em>all</em> the land of Egypt. <a id="c41_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Joseph <em>was</em> thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt. <a id="c41_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls. <a id="c41_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of the field, which <em>was</em> round about every city, laid he up in the same. <a id="c41_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much, until he left numbering; for <em>it was</em> without number. <a id="c41_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him. <a id="c41_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God, <em>said he</em>, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father's house. <a id="c41_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction. <a id="c41_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of Egypt, were ended. <a id="c41_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph had said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread. <a id="c41_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto Joseph; what he saith to you, do. <a id="c41_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And the famine was over all the face of the earth: And Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt. <a id="c41_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy <em>corn</em>; because that the famine was <em>so</em> sore in all lands.

</body>
</html>