<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 49</h2>

<a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you <em>that</em> which shall befall you in the last days. <a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and hearken unto Israel your father. <a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Reuben, thou <em>art</em> my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power: <a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel; because thou wentest up to thy father's bed; then defiledst thou <em>it</em>: he went up to my couch. <a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Simeon and Levi <em>are</em> brethren; instruments of cruelty <em>are in</em> their habitations. <a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly, mine honour, be not thou united: for in their anger they slew a man, and in their selfwill they digged down a wall. <a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Cursed <em>be</em> their anger, for <em>it was</em> fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel. <a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Judah, thou <em>art he</em> whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand <em>shall be</em> in the neck of thine enemies; thy father's children shall bow down before thee. <a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Judah <em>is</em> a lion's whelp: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up: he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall rouse him up? <a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him <em>shall</em> the gathering of the people <em>be</em>. <a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Binding his foal unto the vine, and his ass's colt unto the choice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes: <a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His eyes <em>shall be</em> red with wine, and his teeth white with milk. <a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he <em>shall be</em> for an haven of ships; and his border <em>shall be</em> unto Zidon. <a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Issachar <em>is</em> a strong ass couching down between two burdens: <a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he saw that rest <em>was</em> good, and the land that <em>it was</em> pleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant unto tribute. <a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel. <a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that biteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward. <a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD. <a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at the last. <a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Out of Asher his bread <em>shall be</em> fat, and he shall yield royal dainties. <a id="c49_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Naphtali <em>is</em> a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words. <a id="c49_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Joseph <em>is</em> a fruitful bough, <em>even</em> a fruitful bough by a well; <em>whose</em> branches run over the wall: <a id="c49_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The archers have sorely grieved him, and shot <em>at him</em>, and hated him: <a id="c49_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty <em>God</em> of Jacob; (from thence <em>is</em> the shepherd, the stone of Israel:) <a id="c49_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> <em>Even</em> by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, and of the womb: <a id="c49_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren. <a id="c49_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Benjamin shall ravin <em>as</em> a wolf: in the morning he shall devour the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil. <a id="c49_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> All these <em>are</em> the twelve tribes of Israel: and this <em>is it</em> that their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to his blessing he blessed them. <a id="c49_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that <em>is</em> in the field of Ephron the Hittite, <a id="c49_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> In the cave that <em>is</em> in the field of Machpelah, which <em>is</em> before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a buryingplace. <a id="c49_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah. <a id="c49_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The purchase of the field and of the cave that <em>is</em> therein <em>was</em> from the children of Heth. <a id="c49_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.

</body>
</html>