<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 50</h2>

<a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and kissed him. <a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel. <a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and ten days. <a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, <a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again. <a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he made thee swear. <a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, <a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and his father's house: only their little ones, and their flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen. <a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was a very great company. <a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which <em>is</em> beyond Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation: and he made a mourning for his father seven days. <a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This <em>is</em> a grievous mourning to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim, which <em>is</em> beyond Jordan. <a id="c50_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them: <a id="c50_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre. <a id="c50_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father. <a id="c50_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him. <a id="c50_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying, <a id="c50_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin; for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him. <a id="c50_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and they said, Behold, we <em>be</em> thy servants. <a id="c50_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for <em>am</em> I in the place of God? <a id="c50_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But as for you, ye thought evil against me; <em>but</em> God meant it unto good, to bring to pass, as <em>it is</em> this day, to save much people alive. <a id="c50_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them. <a id="c50_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: and Joseph lived an hundred and ten years. <a id="c50_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third <em>generation</em>: the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph's knees. <a id="c50_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. <a id="c50_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence. <a id="c50_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> So Joseph died, <em>being</em> an hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.

</body>
</html>