<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 26</h2>

<a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar. <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of: <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father; <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Isaac dwelt in Gerar: <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the men of the place asked <em>him</em> of his wife; and he said, She <em>is</em> my sister: for he feared to say, <em>She is</em> my wife; lest, <em>said he</em>, the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she <em>was</em> fair to look upon. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac <em>was</em> sporting with Rebekah his wife. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she <em>is</em> thy wife: and how saidst thou, She <em>is</em> my sister? And Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die for her. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Abimelech said, What <em>is</em> this thou hast done unto us? one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Abimelech charged all <em>his</em> people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great: <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we. <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there. <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water. <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water <em>is</em> ours: and he called the name of the well Esek; because they strove with him. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land. <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he went up from thence to Beersheba. <a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said, I <em>am</em> the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I <em>am</em> with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged a well. <a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army. <a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you? <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they said, We saw certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, <em>even</em> betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee; <a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou <em>art</em> now the blessed of the LORD. <a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink. <a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace. <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water. <a id="c26_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city <em>is</em> Beersheba unto this day. <a id="c26_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite: <a id="c26_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.

</body>
</html>