<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they <em>were</em> fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also <em>is</em> flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare <em>children</em> to them, the same <em>became</em> mighty men which <em>were</em> of old, men of renown. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And GOD saw that the wickedness of man <em>was</em> great in the earth, and <em>that</em> every imagination of the thoughts of his heart <em>was</em> only evil continually. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> These <em>are</em> the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man <em>and</em> perfect in his generations, <em>and</em> Noah walked with God. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And this <em>is the fashion</em> which thou shalt make it <em>of</em>: The length of the ark <em>shall be</em> three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof; <em>with</em> lower, second, and third <em>stories</em> shalt thou make it. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein <em>is</em> the breath of life, from under heaven; <em>and</em> every thing that <em>is</em> in the earth shall die. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every <em>sort</em> shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep <em>them</em> alive with thee; they shall be male and female. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every <em>sort</em> shall come unto thee, to keep <em>them</em> alive. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather <em>it</em> to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did he.

</body>
</html>