<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 32</h2>

<a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him. <a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when Jacob saw them, he said, This <em>is</em> God's host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim. <a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom. <a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed there until now: <a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find grace in thy sight. <a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him. <a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the people that <em>was</em> with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels, into two bands; <a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape. <a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee: <a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two bands. <a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, <em>and</em> the mother with the children. <a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude. <a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came to his hand a present for Esau his brother; <a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Two hundred she goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams, <a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls, twenty she asses, and ten foals. <a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he delivered <em>them</em> into the hand of his servants, every drove by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space betwixt drove and drove. <a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose <em>art</em> thou? and whither goest thou? and whose <em>are</em> these before thee? <a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then thou shalt say, <em>They be</em> thy servant Jacob's; it <em>is</em> a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, also he <em>is</em> behind us. <a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau, when ye find him. <a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob <em>is</em> behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me. <a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that night in the company. <a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok. <a id="c32_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over that he had. <a id="c32_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. <a id="c32_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him. <a id="c32_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. <a id="c32_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said unto him, What <em>is</em> thy name? And he said, Jacob. <a id="c32_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. <a id="c32_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jacob asked <em>him</em>, and said, Tell <em>me</em>, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore <em>is</em> it <em>that</em> thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there. <a id="c32_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. <a id="c32_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh. <a id="c32_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Therefore the children of Israel eat not <em>of</em> the sinew which shrank, which <em>is</em> upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.

</body>
</html>