<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 38</h2>

<a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name <em>was</em> Hirah. <a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name <em>was</em> Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her. <a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er. <a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name Onan. <a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him. <a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name <em>was</em> Tamar. <a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD slew him. <a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother's wife, and marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother. <a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to pass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled <em>it</em> on the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother. <a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he slew him also. <a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow at thy father's house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lest peradventure he die also, as his brethren <em>did</em>. And Tamar went and dwelt in her father's house. <a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah's wife died; and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite. <a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up to Timnath to shear his sheep. <a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And she put her widow's garments off from her, and covered her with a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which <em>is</em> by the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was not given unto him to wife. <a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> When Judah saw her, he thought her <em>to be</em> an harlot; because she had covered her face. <a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee, let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she <em>was</em> his daughter in law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come in unto me? <a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said, I will send <em>thee</em> a kid from the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give <em>me</em> a pledge, till thou send <em>it</em>? <a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet, and thy bracelets, and thy staff that <em>is</em> in thine hand. And he gave <em>it</em> her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him. <a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and put on the garments of her widowhood. <a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive <em>his</em> pledge from the woman's hand: but he found her not. <a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where <em>is</em> the harlot, that <em>was</em> openly by the way side? And they said, There was no harlot in this <em>place</em>. <a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also the men of the place said, <em>that</em> there was no harlot in this <em>place</em>. <a id="c38_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Judah said, Let her take <em>it</em> to her, lest we be shamed: behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her. <a id="c38_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; and also, behold, she <em>is</em> with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her forth, and let her be burnt. <a id="c38_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When she <em>was</em> brought forth, she sent to her father in law, saying, By the man, whose these <em>are, am</em> I with child: and she said, Discern, I pray thee, whose <em>are</em> these, the signet, and bracelets, and staff. <a id="c38_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Judah acknowledged <em>them</em>, and said, She hath been more righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he knew her again no more. <a id="c38_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins <em>were</em> in her womb. <a id="c38_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it came to pass, when she travailed, that <em>the one</em> put out <em>his</em> hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread, saying, This came out first. <a id="c38_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? <em>this</em> breach <em>be</em> upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez. <a id="c38_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah.

</body>
</html>