<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 18</h2>

<a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day; <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he lift up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw <em>them</em>, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the ground, <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And said, My Lord, if now I have found favour in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant: <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let a little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree: <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead <em>it</em>, and make cakes upon the hearth. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good, and gave <em>it</em> unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set <em>it</em> before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they said unto him, Where <em>is</em> Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard <em>it</em> in the tent door, which <em>was</em> behind him. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now Abraham and Sarah <em>were</em> old <em>and</em> well stricken in age; <em>and</em> it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also? <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the LORD said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old? <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Is any thing too hard for the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do; <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him? <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous; <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked? <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that <em>are</em> therein? <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right? <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes. <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, which <em>am but</em> dust and ashes: <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou destroy all the city for <em>lack of</em> five? And he said, If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy <em>it</em>. <a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do <em>it</em> for forty's sake. <a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he said <em>unto him</em>, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I will not do <em>it</em>, if I find thirty there. <a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I will not destroy <em>it</em> for twenty's sake. <a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy <em>it</em> for ten's sake. <a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.

</body>
</html>