<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 23</h2>

<a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: <em>these were</em> the years of the life of Sarah. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same <em>is</em> Hebron in the land of Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the sons of Heth, saying, <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I <em>am</em> a stranger and a sojourner with you: give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him, <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear us, my lord: thou <em>art</em> a mighty prince among us: in the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, <em>even</em> to the children of Heth. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me to Ephron the son of Zohar, <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he hath, which <em>is</em> in the end of his field; for as much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a buryingplace amongst you. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, <em>even</em> of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying, <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Nay, my lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that <em>is</em> therein, I give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee: bury thy dead. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the land, saying, But if thou <em>wilt give it</em>, I pray thee, hear me: I will give thee money for the field; take <em>it</em> of me, and I will bury my dead there. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My lord, hearken unto me: the land <em>is worth</em> four hundred shekels of silver; what <em>is</em> that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, current <em>money</em> with the merchant. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the field of Ephron, which <em>was</em> in Machpelah, which <em>was</em> before Mamre, the field, and the cave which <em>was</em> therein, and all the trees that <em>were</em> in the field, that <em>were</em> in all the borders round about, were made sure <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city. <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same <em>is</em> Hebron in the land of Canaan. <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the field, and the cave that <em>is</em> therein, were made sure unto Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.

</body>
</html>