<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 43</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 43</h2>

<a id="c43_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the famine <em>was</em> sore in the land. <a id="c43_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy us a little food. <a id="c43_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother <em>be</em> with you. <a id="c43_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food: <a id="c43_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if thou wilt not send <em>him</em>, we will not go down: for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother <em>be</em> with you. <a id="c43_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye <em>so</em> ill with me, <em>as</em> to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother? <a id="c43_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they said, The man asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, <em>Is</em> your father yet alive? have ye <em>another</em> brother? and we told him according to the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down? <a id="c43_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Judah said unto Israel his father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we, and thou, <em>and</em> also our little ones. <a id="c43_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame for ever: <a id="c43_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time. <a id="c43_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And their father Israel said unto them, If <em>it must be</em> so now, do this; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and myrrh, nuts, and almonds: <a id="c43_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And take double money in your hand; and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry <em>it</em> again in your hand; peradventure it <em>was</em> an oversight: <a id="c43_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take also your brother, and arise, go again unto the man: <a id="c43_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your other brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved <em>of my children</em>, I am bereaved. <a id="c43_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the men took that present, and they took double money in their hand, and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph. <a id="c43_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of his house, Bring <em>these</em> men home, and slay, and make ready; for <em>these</em> men shall dine with me at noon. <a id="c43_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the men into Joseph's house. <a id="c43_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph's house; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses. <a id="c43_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and they communed with him at the door of the house, <a id="c43_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And said, O sir, we came indeed down at the first time to buy food: <a id="c43_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And it came to pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold, <em>every</em> man's money <em>was</em> in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight: and we have brought it again in our hand. <a id="c43_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food: we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks. <a id="c43_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said, Peace <em>be</em> to you, fear not: your God, and the God of your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money. And he brought Simeon out unto them. <a id="c43_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the man brought the men into Joseph's house, and gave <em>them</em> water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender. <a id="c43_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: for they heard that they should eat bread there. <a id="c43_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which <em>was</em> in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the earth. <a id="c43_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he asked them of <em>their</em> welfare, and said, <em>Is</em> your father well, the old man of whom ye spake? <em>Is</em> he yet alive? <a id="c43_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they answered, Thy servant our father <em>is</em> in good health, he <em>is</em> yet alive. And they bowed down their heads, and made obeisance. <a id="c43_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, <em>Is</em> this your younger brother, of whom ye spake unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son. <a id="c43_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother: and he sought <em>where</em> to weep; and he entered into <em>his</em> chamber, and wept there. <a id="c43_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he washed his face, and went out, and refrained himself, and said, Set on bread. <a id="c43_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by themselves: because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that <em>is</em> an abomination unto the Egyptians. <a id="c43_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and the men marvelled one at another. <a id="c43_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he took <em>and sent</em> messes unto them from before him: but Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of theirs. And they drank, and were merry with him.

</body>
</html>