<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 48</h2>

<a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass after these things, that <em>one</em> told Joseph, Behold, thy father <em>is</em> sick: and he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. <a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And <em>one</em> told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed. <a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, <a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee a multitude of people; and will give this land to thy seed after thee <em>for</em> an everlasting possession. <a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, <em>are</em> mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine. <a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine, <em>and</em> shall be called after the name of their brethren in their inheritance. <a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when yet <em>there was</em> but a little way to come unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the same <em>is</em> Bethlehem. <a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Israel beheld Joseph's sons, and said, Who <em>are</em> these? <a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Joseph said unto his father, They <em>are</em> my sons, whom God hath given me in this <em>place</em>. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them. <a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, <em>so that</em> he could not see. And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embraced them. <a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face: and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed. <a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth. <a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought <em>them</em> near unto him. <a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid <em>it</em> upon Ephraim's head, who <em>was</em> the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh <em>was</em> the firstborn. <a id="c48_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto this day, <a id="c48_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth. <a id="c48_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father's hand, to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head. <a id="c48_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this <em>is</em> the firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head. <a id="c48_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And his father refused, and said, I know <em>it</em>, my son, I know <em>it</em>: he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations. <a id="c48_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he set Ephraim before Manasseh. <a id="c48_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God shall be with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers. <a id="c48_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow.

</body>
</html>