<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 42</h2>

<a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do ye look one upon another? <a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, and buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die. <a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt. <a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren; for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him. <a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the sons of Israel came to buy <em>corn</em> among those that came: for the famine was in the land of Canaan. <a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Joseph <em>was</em> the governor over the land, <em>and</em> he <em>it was</em> that sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph's brethren came, and bowed down themselves before him <em>with</em> their faces to the earth. <a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them, Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food. <a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him. <a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and said unto them, Ye <em>are</em> spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come. <a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy servants come. <a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> We <em>are</em> all one man's sons; we <em>are</em> true <em>men</em>, thy servants are no spies. <a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land ye are come. <a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they said, Thy servants <em>are</em> twelve brethren, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest <em>is</em> this day with our father, and one <em>is</em> not. <a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Joseph said unto them, That <em>is it</em> that I spake unto you, saying, Ye <em>are</em> spies: <a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come hither. <a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether <em>there be any</em> truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye <em>are</em> spies. <a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he put them all together into ward three days. <a id="c42_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live; <em>for</em> I fear God: <a id="c42_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If ye <em>be</em> true <em>men</em>, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses: <a id="c42_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so. <a id="c42_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they said one to another, We <em>are</em> verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us. <a id="c42_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore, behold, also his blood is required. <a id="c42_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they knew not that Joseph understood <em>them</em>; for he spake unto them by an interpreter. <a id="c42_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound him before their eyes. <a id="c42_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way: and thus did he unto them. <a id="c42_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence. <a id="c42_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it <em>was</em> in his sack's mouth. <a id="c42_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, <em>it is</em> even in my sack: and their heart failed <em>them</em>, and they were afraid, saying one to another, What <em>is</em> this <em>that</em> God hath done unto us? <a id="c42_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell unto them; saying, <a id="c42_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The man, <em>who is</em> the lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the country. <a id="c42_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And we said unto him, We <em>are</em> true <em>men</em>; we are no spies: <a id="c42_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> We <em>be</em> twelve brethren, sons of our father; one <em>is</em> not, and the youngest <em>is</em> this day with our father in the land of Canaan. <a id="c42_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye <em>are</em> true <em>men</em>; leave one of your brethren <em>here</em> with me, and take <em>food for</em> the famine of your households, and be gone: <a id="c42_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye <em>are</em> no spies, but <em>that</em> ye <em>are</em> true <em>men: so</em> will I deliver you your brother, and ye shall traffick in the land. <a id="c42_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold, every man's bundle of money <em>was</em> in his sack: and when <em>both</em> they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid. <a id="c42_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved <em>of my children</em>: Joseph <em>is</em> not, and Simeon <em>is</em> not, and ye will take Benjamin <em>away</em>: all these things are against me. <a id="c42_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again. <a id="c42_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way in the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.

</body>
</html>