<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that <em>was</em> with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged; <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained; <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the waters returned from off the earth continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the tenth <em>month</em>, on the first <em>day</em> of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made: <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground; <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for the waters <em>were</em> on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark; <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the dove came in to him in the evening; and, lo, in her mouth <em>was</em> an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove; which returned not again unto him any more. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first <em>month</em>, the first <em>day</em> of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dry. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, was the earth dried. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And God spake unto Noah, saying, <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Bring forth with thee every living thing that <em>is</em> with thee, of all flesh, <em>both</em> of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him: <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, <em>and</em> whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went forth out of the ark. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake; for the imagination of man's heart <em>is</em> evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

</body>
</html>