<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth <em>upon</em> the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are they delivered. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the green herb have I given you all things. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But flesh with the life thereof, <em>which is</em> the blood thereof, shall ye not eat. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you; <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And with every living creature that <em>is</em> with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will establish my covenant with you; neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And God said, This <em>is</em> the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that <em>is</em> with you, for perpetual generations: <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud: <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will remember my covenant, which <em>is</em> between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that <em>is</em> upon the earth. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And God said unto Noah, This <em>is</em> the token of the covenant, which I have established between me and all flesh that <em>is</em> upon the earth. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham <em>is</em> the father of Canaan. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These <em>are</em> the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth overspread. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Noah began <em>to be</em> an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard: <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid <em>it</em> upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces <em>were</em> backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said, Cursed <em>be</em> Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said, Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant. <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.

</body>
</html>