<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 35</h2>

<a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother. <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that <em>were</em> with him, Put away the strange gods that <em>are</em> among you, and be clean, and change your garments: <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went. <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which <em>were</em> in their hand, and <em>all their</em> earrings which <em>were</em> in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which <em>was</em> by Shechem. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities that <em>were</em> round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob. <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So Jacob came to Luz, which <em>is</em> in the land of Canaan, that <em>is</em>, Bethel, he and all the people that <em>were</em> with him. <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother. <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth. <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram, and blessed him. <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And God said unto him, Thy name <em>is</em> Jacob: thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel. <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And God said unto him, I <em>am</em> God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins; <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land. <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him. <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, <em>even</em> a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon. <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him, Bethel. <a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour. <a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also. <a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him Benjamin. <a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which <em>is</em> Bethlehem. <a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that <em>is</em> the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day. <a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar. <a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard <em>it</em>. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: <a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The sons of Leah; Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun: <a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin: <a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali: <a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid; Gad, and Asher: these <em>are</em> the sons of Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram. <a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city of Arbah, which <em>is</em> Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned. <a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years. <a id="c35_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his people, <em>being</em> old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.

</body>
</html>