<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 14</h2>

<a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations; <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> <em>That these</em> made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is the salt sea. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that <em>were</em> with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzims in Ham, and the Emims in Shaveh Kiriathaim, <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which <em>is</em> by the wilderness. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which <em>is</em> Kadesh, and smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that dwelt in Hazezontamar. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (the same <em>is</em> Zoar;) and they joined battle with them in the vale of Siddim; <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings with five. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the vale of Siddim <em>was full of</em> slimepits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled to the mountain. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their victuals, and went their way. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew; for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner: and these <em>were</em> confederate with Abram. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his trained <em>servants</em>, born in his own house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued <em>them</em> unto Dan. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which <em>is</em> on the left hand of Damascus. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that <em>were</em> with him, at the valley of Shaveh, which <em>is</em> the king's dale. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and he <em>was</em> the priest of the most high God. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he blessed him, and said, Blessed <em>be</em> Abram of the most high God, possessor of heaven and earth: <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And blessed be the most high God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him tithes of all. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and take the goods to thyself. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lift up mine hand unto the LORD, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth, <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> That I will not <em>take</em> from a thread even to a shoelatchet, and that I will not take any thing that <em>is</em> thine, lest thou shouldest say, I have made Abram rich: <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion.

</body>
</html>