<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 40</h2>

<a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. <a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and cover the ark with the vail. <a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou shalt bring in the table, and set in order the things that are to be set in order upon it; and thou shalt bring in the candlestick, and light the lamps thereof. <a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense before the ark of the testimony, and put the hanging of the door to the tabernacle. <a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou shalt set the altar of the burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation. <a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou shalt set the laver between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and shalt put water therein. <a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou shalt set up the court round about, and hang up the hanging at the court gate. <a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou shalt take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle, and all that <em>is</em> therein, and shalt hallow it, and all the vessels thereof: and it shall be holy. <a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And thou shalt anoint the altar of the burnt offering, and all his vessels, and sanctify the altar: and it shall be an altar most holy. <a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thou shalt anoint the laver and his foot, and sanctify it. <a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and wash them with water. <a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments, and anoint him, and sanctify him; that he may minister unto me in the priest's office. <a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And thou shalt bring his sons, and clothe them with coats: <a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And thou shalt anoint them, as thou didst anoint their father, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office: for their anointing shall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations. <a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus did Moses: according to all that the LORD commanded him, so did he. <a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on the first <em>day</em> of the month, <em>that</em> the tabernacle was reared up. <a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and fastened his sockets, and set up the boards thereof, and put in the bars thereof, and reared up his pillars. <a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he spread abroad the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent above upon it; as the LORD commanded Moses. <a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the staves on the ark, and put the mercy seat above upon the ark: <a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the vail of the covering, and covered the ark of the testimony; as the LORD commanded Moses. <a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he put the table in the tent of the congregation, upon the side of the tabernacle northward, without the vail. <a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he set the bread in order upon it before the LORD; as the LORD had commanded Moses. <a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he put the candlestick in the tent of the congregation, over against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward. <a id="c40_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he lighted the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses. <a id="c40_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he put the golden altar in the tent of the congregation before the vail: <a id="c40_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he burnt sweet incense thereon; as the LORD commanded Moses. <a id="c40_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he set up the hanging <em>at</em> the door of the tabernacle. <a id="c40_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he put the altar of burnt offering <em>by</em> the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation, and offered upon it the burnt offering and the meat offering; as the LORD commanded Moses. <a id="c40_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he set the laver between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and put water there, to wash <em>withal</em>. <a id="c40_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet thereat: <a id="c40_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> When they went into the tent of the congregation, and when they came near unto the altar, they washed; as the LORD commanded Moses. <a id="c40_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar, and set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished the work. <a id="c40_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle. <a id="c40_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle. <a id="c40_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward in all their journeys: <a id="c40_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But if the cloud were not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that it was taken up. <a id="c40_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> For the cloud of the LORD <em>was</em> upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.

</body>
</html>