<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 25</h2>

<a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring me an offering: of every man that giveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take my offering. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this <em>is</em> the offering which ye shall take of them; gold, and silver, and brass, <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' <em>hair</em>, <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers' skins, and shittim wood, <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Oil for the light, spices for anointing oil, and for sweet incense, <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod, and in the breastplate. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And let them make me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> According to all that I shew thee, <em>after</em> the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make <em>it</em>. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they shall make an ark <em>of</em> shittim wood: two cubits and a half <em>shall be</em> the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put <em>them</em> in the four corners thereof; and two rings <em>shall be</em> in the one side of it, and two rings in the other side of it. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou shalt make staves <em>of</em> shittim wood, and overlay them with gold. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, that the ark may be borne with them. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And thou shalt make a mercy seat <em>of</em> pure gold: two cubits and a half <em>shall be</em> the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And thou shalt make two cherubims <em>of</em> gold, <em>of</em> beaten work shalt thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat. <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end: <em>even</em> of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubims on the two ends thereof. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the cherubims shall stretch forth <em>their</em> wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces <em>shall look</em> one to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubims be. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubims which <em>are</em> upon the ark of the testimony, of all <em>things</em> which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel. <a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thou shalt also make a table <em>of</em> shittim wood: two cubits <em>shall be</em> the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. <a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about. <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And thou shalt make unto it a border of an hand breadth round about, and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round about. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that <em>are</em> on the four feet thereof. <a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Over against the border shall the rings be for places of the staves to bear the table. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And thou shalt make the staves <em>of</em> shittim wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and spoons thereof, and covers thereof, and bowls thereof, to cover withal: <em>of</em> pure gold shalt thou make them. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me alway. <a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And thou shalt make a candlestick <em>of</em> pure gold: <em>of</em> beaten work shall the candlestick be made: his shaft, and his branches, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the same. <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And six branches shall come out of the sides of it; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side: <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Three bowls made like unto almonds, <em>with</em> a knop and a flower in one branch; and three bowls made like almonds in the other branch, <em>with</em> a knop and a flower: so in the six branches that come out of the candlestick. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And in the candlestick <em>shall be</em> four bowls made like unto almonds, <em>with</em> their knops and their flowers. <a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And <em>there shall be</em> a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches that proceed out of the candlestick. <a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Their knops and their branches shall be of the same: all it <em>shall be</em> one beaten work <em>of</em> pure gold. <a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof: and they shall light the lamps thereof, that they may give light over against it. <a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the tongs thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, <em>shall be of</em> pure gold. <a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> <em>Of</em> a talent of pure gold shall he make it, with all these vessels. <a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And look that thou make <em>them</em> after their pattern, which was shewed thee in the mount.

</body>
</html>