<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 27</h2>

<a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And thou shalt make an altar <em>of</em> shittim wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height thereof <em>shall be</em> three cubits. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay it with brass. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his shovels, and his basons, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all the vessels thereof thou shalt make <em>of</em> brass. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou shalt make for it a grate of network <em>of</em> brass; and upon the net shalt thou make four brasen rings in the four corners thereof. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath, that the net may be even to the midst of the altar. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves <em>of</em> shittim wood, and overlay them with brass. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, to bear it. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it was shewed thee in the mount, so shall they make <em>it</em>. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward <em>there shall be</em> hangings for the court <em>of</em> fine twined linen of an hundred cubits long for one side: <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets <em>shall be of</em> brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets <em>shall be of</em> silver. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And likewise for the north side in length <em>there shall be</em> hangings of an hundred <em>cubits</em> long, and his twenty pillars and their twenty sockets <em>of</em> brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets <em>of</em> silver. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And <em>for</em> the breadth of the court on the west side <em>shall be</em> hangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their sockets ten. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward <em>shall be</em> fifty cubits. <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The hangings of one side <em>of the gate shall be</em> fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And on the other side <em>shall be</em> hangings fifteen <em>cubits</em>: their pillars three, and their sockets three. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And for the gate of the court <em>shall be</em> an hanging of twenty cubits, <em>of</em> blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needlework: <em>and</em> their pillars <em>shall be</em> four, and their sockets four. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the pillars round about the court <em>shall be</em> filleted with silver; their hooks <em>shall be of</em> silver, and their sockets <em>of</em> brass. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The length of the court <em>shall be</em> an hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits <em>of</em> fine twined linen, and their sockets <em>of</em> brass. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, <em>shall be of</em> brass. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burn always. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In the tabernacle of the congregation without the vail, which <em>is</em> before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening to morning before the LORD: <em>it shall be</em> a statute for ever unto their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.

</body>
</html>