<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 22</h2>

<a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If a man shall steal an ox, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it; he shall restore five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If a thief be found breaking up, and be smitten that he die, <em>there shall</em> no blood <em>be shed</em> for him. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If the sun be risen upon him, <em>there shall be</em> blood <em>shed</em> for him; <em>for</em> he should make full restitution; if he have nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If the theft be certainly found in his hand alive, whether it be ox, or ass, or sheep; he shall restore double. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall put in his beast, and shall feed in another man's field; of the best of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make restitution. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the stacks of corn, or the standing corn, or the field, be consumed <em>therewith</em>; he that kindled the fire shall surely make restitution. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If a man shall deliver unto his neighbour money or stuff to keep, and it be stolen out of the man's house; if the thief be found, let him pay double. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall be brought unto the judges, <em>to see</em> whether he have put his hand unto his neighbour's goods. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For all manner of trespass, <em>whether it be</em> for ox, for ass, for sheep, for raiment, <em>or</em> for any manner of lost thing, which <em>another</em> challengeth to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the judges; <em>and</em> whom the judges shall condemn, he shall pay double unto his neighbour. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If a man deliver unto his neighbour an ass, or an ox, or a sheep, or any beast, to keep; and it die, or be hurt, or driven away, no man seeing <em>it</em>: <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>Then</em> shall an oath of the LORD be between them both, that he hath not put his hand unto his neighbour's goods; and the owner of it shall accept <em>thereof</em>, and he shall not make <em>it</em> good. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution unto the owner thereof. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If it be torn in pieces, <em>then</em> let him bring it <em>for</em> witness, <em>and</em> he shall not make good that which was torn. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if a man borrow <em>ought</em> of his neighbour, and it be hurt, or die, the owner thereof <em>being</em> not with it, he shall surely make <em>it</em> good. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> <em>But</em> if the owner thereof <em>be</em> with it, he shall not make <em>it</em> good: if it <em>be</em> an hired <em>thing</em>, it came for his hire. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if a man entice a maid that is not betrothed, and lie with her, he shall surely endow her to be his wife. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If her father utterly refuse to give her unto him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins. <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He that sacrificeth unto <em>any</em> god, save unto the LORD only, he shall be utterly destroyed. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou shalt neither vex a stranger, nor oppress him: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If thou afflict them in any wise, and they cry at all unto me, I will surely hear their cry; <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And my wrath shall wax hot, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If thou lend money to <em>any of</em> my people <em>that is</em> poor by thee, thou shalt not be to him as an usurer, neither shalt thou lay upon him usury. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If thou at all take thy neighbour's raiment to pledge, thou shalt deliver it unto him by that the sun goeth down: <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For that <em>is</em> his covering only, it <em>is</em> his raiment for his skin: wherein shall he sleep? and it shall come to pass, when he crieth unto me, that I will hear; for I <em>am</em> gracious. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou shalt not revile the gods, nor curse the ruler of thy people. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Thou shalt not delay <em>to offer</em> the first of thy ripe fruits, and of thy liquors: the firstborn of thy sons shalt thou give unto me. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen, <em>and</em> with thy sheep: seven days it shall be with his dam; on the eighth day thou shalt give it me. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And ye shall be holy men unto me: neither shall ye eat <em>any</em> flesh <em>that is</em> torn of beasts in the field; ye shall cast it to the dogs.

</body>
</html>