<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 23</h2>

<a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thou shalt not raise a false report: put not thine hand with the wicked to be an unrighteous witness. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou shalt not follow a multitude to <em>do</em> evil; neither shalt thou speak in a cause to decline after many to wrest <em>judgment</em>: <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Neither shalt thou countenance a poor man in his cause. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back to him again. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and wouldest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with him. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Keep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous slay thou not: for I will not justify the wicked. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, and perverteth the words of the righteous. <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger: for ye know the heart of a stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and shalt gather in the fruits thereof: <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the seventh <em>year</em> thou shalt let it rest and lie still; that the poor of thy people may eat: and what they leave the beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with thy vineyard, <em>and</em> with thy oliveyard. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou shalt rest: that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the son of thy handmaid, and the stranger, may be refreshed. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And in all <em>things</em> that I have said unto you be circumspect: and make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard out of thy mouth. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread: (thou shalt eat unleavened bread seven days, as I commanded thee, in the time appointed of the month Abib; for in it thou camest out from Egypt: and none shall appear before me empty:) <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the feast of harvest, the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown in the field: and the feast of ingathering, <em>which is</em> in the end of the year, when thou hast gathered in thy labours out of the field. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Three times in the year all thy males shall appear before the Lord GOD. <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread; neither shall the fat of my sacrifice remain until the morning. <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk. <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Beware of him, and obey his voice, provoke him not; for he will not pardon your transgressions: for my name <em>is</em> in him. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that I speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversary unto thine adversaries. <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites: and I will cut them off. <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their works: but thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and quite break down their images. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And ye shall serve the LORD your God, and he shall bless thy bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of thee. <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There shall nothing cast their young, nor be barren, in thy land: the number of thy days I will fulfil. <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people to whom thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their backs unto thee. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I will not drive them out from before thee in one year; lest the land become desolate, and the beast of the field multiply against thee. <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, until thou be increased, and inherit the land. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And I will set thy bounds from the Red sea even unto the sea of the Philistines, and from the desert unto the river: for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand; and thou shalt drive them out before thee. <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods. <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me: for if thou serve their gods, it will surely be a snare unto thee.

</body>
</html>