<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 20</h2>

<a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And God spake all these words, saying, <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I <em>am</em> the LORD thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou shalt have no other gods before me. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness <em>of any thing</em> that <em>is</em> in heaven above, or that <em>is</em> in the earth beneath, or that <em>is</em> in the water under the earth: <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God <em>am</em> a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth <em>generation</em> of them that hate me; <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments. <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work: <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the seventh day <em>is</em> the sabbath of the LORD thy God: <em>in it</em> thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that <em>is</em> within thy gates: <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For <em>in</em> six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them <em>is</em>, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou shalt not kill. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou shalt not commit adultery. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou shalt not steal. <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that <em>is</em> thy neighbour's. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the people saw <em>it</em>, they removed, and stood afar off. <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear: but let not God speak with us, lest we die. <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come to prove you, and that his fear may be before your faces, that ye sin not. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God <em>was</em>. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, Ye have seen that I have talked with you from heaven. <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen: in all places where I record my name I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build it of hewn stone: for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy nakedness be not discovered thereon.

</body>
</html>