<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 14</h2>

<a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, that they turn and encamp before Pihahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, over against Baalzephon: before it shall ye encamp by the sea. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They <em>are</em> entangled in the land, the wilderness hath shut them in. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, that he shall follow after them; and I will be honoured upon Pharaoh, and upon all his host; that the Egyptians may know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. And they did so. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled: and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people, and they said, Why have we done this, that we have let Israel go from serving us? <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he made ready his chariot, and took his people with him: <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and captains over every one of them. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel: and the children of Israel went out with an high hand. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses <em>and</em> chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baalzephon. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and, behold, the Egyptians marched after them; and they were sore afraid: and the children of Israel cried out unto the LORD. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they said unto Moses, Because <em>there were</em> no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us, to carry us forth out of Egypt? <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> <em>Is</em> not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians? For <em>it had been</em> better for us to serve the Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of the LORD, which he will shew to you to day: for the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day, ye shall see them again no more for ever. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The LORD shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me? speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward: <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But lift thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and divide it: and the children of Israel shall go on dry <em>ground</em> through the midst of the sea. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall follow them: and I will get me honour upon Pharaoh, and upon all his host, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the Egyptians shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD, when I have gotten me honour upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel, removed and went behind them; and the pillar of the cloud went from before their face, and stood behind them: <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel; and it was a cloud and darkness <em>to them</em>, but it gave light by night <em>to these</em>: so that the one came not near the other all the night. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the LORD caused the sea to go <em>back</em> by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea dry <em>land</em>, and the waters were divided. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry <em>ground</em>: and the waters <em>were</em> a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them to the midst of the sea, <em>even</em> all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen. <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it came to pass, that in the morning watch the LORD looked unto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the cloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians, <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And took off their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily: so that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; for the LORD fighteth for them against the Egyptians. <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to his strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians fled against it; and the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, <em>and</em> all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them; there remained not so much as one of them. <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But the children of Israel walked upon dry <em>land</em> in the midst of the sea; and the waters <em>were</em> a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Thus the LORD saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea shore. <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Israel saw that great work which the LORD did upon the Egyptians: and the people feared the LORD, and believed the LORD, and his servant Moses.

</body>
</html>