<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 36</h2>

<a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in whom the LORD put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that the LORD had commanded. <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom, <em>even</em> every one whose heart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it: <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they received of Moses all the offering, which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it <em>withal</em>. And they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And all the wise men, that wrought all the work of the sanctuary, came every man from his work which they made; <a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they spake unto Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work, which the LORD commanded to make. <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing. <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make it, and too much. <a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains <em>of</em> fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: <em>with</em> cherubims of cunning work made he them. <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The length of one curtain <em>was</em> twenty and eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: the curtains <em>were</em> all of one size. <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he coupled the five curtains one unto another: and <em>the other</em> five curtains he coupled one unto another. <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling: likewise he made in the uttermost side of <em>another</em> curtain, in the coupling of the second. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he in the edge of the curtain which <em>was</em> in the coupling of the second: the loops held one <em>curtain</em> to another. <a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he made fifty taches of gold, and coupled the curtains one unto another with the taches: so it became one tabernacle. <a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he made curtains <em>of</em> goats' <em>hair</em> for the tent over the tabernacle: eleven curtains he made them. <a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The length of one curtain <em>was</em> thirty cubits, and four cubits <em>was</em> the breadth of one curtain: the eleven curtains <em>were</em> of one size. <a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves. <a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he made fifty loops upon the uttermost edge of the curtain in the coupling, and fifty loops made he upon the edge of the curtain which coupleth the second. <a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he made fifty taches <em>of</em> brass to couple the tent together, that it might be one. <a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he made a covering for the tent <em>of</em> rams' skins dyed red, and a covering <em>of</em> badgers' skins above <em>that</em>. <a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he made boards for the tabernacle <em>of</em> shittim wood, standing up. <a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The length of a board <em>was</em> ten cubits, and the breadth of a board one cubit and a half. <a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> One board had two tenons, equally distant one from another: thus did he make for all the boards of the tabernacle. <a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he made boards for the tabernacle; twenty boards for the south side southward: <a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And forty sockets of silver he made under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two sockets under another board for his two tenons. <a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And for the other side of the tabernacle, <em>which is</em> toward the north corner, he made twenty boards, <a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board. <a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And for the sides of the tabernacle westward he made six boards. <a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides. <a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they were coupled beneath, and coupled together at the head thereof, to one ring: thus he did to both of them in both the corners. <a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And there were eight boards; and their sockets <em>were</em> sixteen sockets of silver, under every board two sockets. <a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he made bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle, <a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the sides westward. <a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he made the middle bar to shoot through the boards from the one end to the other. <a id="c36_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings <em>of</em> gold <em>to be</em> places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold. <a id="c36_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he made a vail <em>of</em> blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: <em>with</em> cherubims made he it of cunning work. <a id="c36_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he made thereunto four pillars <em>of</em> shittim <em>wood</em>, and overlaid them with gold: their hooks <em>were of</em> gold; and he cast for them four sockets of silver. <a id="c36_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door <em>of</em> blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework; <a id="c36_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the five pillars of it with their hooks: and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold: but their five sockets <em>were of</em> brass.

</body>
</html>