<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 11</h2>

<a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Yet will I bring one plague <em>more</em> upon Pharaoh, and upon Egypt; afterwards he will let you go hence: when he shall let <em>you</em> go, he shall surely thrust you out hence altogether. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man borrow of his neighbour, and every woman of her neighbour, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover the man Moses <em>was</em> very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Moses said, Thus saith the LORD, About midnight will I go out into the midst of Egypt: <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his throne, even unto the firstborn of the maidservant that <em>is</em> behind the mill; and all the firstborn of beasts. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it any more. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue, against man or beast: that ye may know how that the LORD doth put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And all these thy servants shall come down unto me, and bow down themselves unto me, saying, Get thee out, and all the people that follow thee: and after that I will go out. And he went out from Pharaoh in a great anger. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you; that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: and the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the children of Israel go out of his land.

</body>
</html>