<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then the LORD said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh: for with a strong hand shall he let them go, and with a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I <em>am</em> the LORD: <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by <em>the name of</em> God Almighty, but by my name JEHOVAH was I not known to them. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I have also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they were strangers. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I <em>am</em> the LORD, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched out arm, and with great judgments: <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God: and ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD your God, which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning the which I did swear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it you for an heritage: I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Go in, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Moses spake before the LORD, saying, Behold, the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who <em>am</em> of uncircumcised lips? <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These <em>be</em> the heads of their fathers' houses: The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi: these <em>be</em> the families of Reuben. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these <em>are</em> the families of Simeon. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And these <em>are</em> the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: and the years of the life of Levi <em>were</em> an hundred thirty and seven years. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their families. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel: and the years of the life of Kohath <em>were</em> an hundred thirty and three years. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the sons of Merari; Mahali and Mushi: these <em>are</em> the families of Levi according to their generations. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Amram took him Jochebed his father's sister to wife; and she bare him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram <em>were</em> an hundred and thirty and seven years. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Aaron took him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon, to wife; and she bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these <em>are</em> the families of the Korhites. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Eleazar Aaron's son took him <em>one</em> of the daughters of Putiel to wife; and she bare him Phinehas: these <em>are</em> the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families. <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> These <em>are</em> that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said, Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These <em>are</em> they which spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt: these <em>are</em> that Moses and Aaron. <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it came to pass on the day <em>when</em> the LORD spake unto Moses in the land of Egypt, <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> That the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, I <em>am</em> the LORD: speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say unto thee. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Moses said before the LORD, Behold, I <em>am</em> of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?

</body>
</html>