<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 30</h2>

<a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And thou shalt make an altar to burn incense upon: <em>of</em> shittim wood shalt thou make it. <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A cubit <em>shall be</em> the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof; foursquare shall it be: and two cubits <em>shall be</em> the height thereof: the horns thereof <em>shall be</em> of the same. <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof; and thou shalt make unto it a crown of gold round about. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And two golden rings shalt thou make to it under the crown of it, by the two corners thereof, upon the two sides of it shalt thou make <em>it</em>; and they shall be for places for the staves to bear it withal. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And thou shalt make the staves <em>of</em> shittim wood, and overlay them with gold. <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou shalt put it before the vail that <em>is</em> by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy seat that <em>is</em> over the testimony, where I will meet with thee. <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Aaron shall burn thereon sweet incense every morning: when he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn incense upon it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your generations. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor meat offering; neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon. <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Aaron shall make an atonement upon the horns of it once in a year with the blood of the sin offering of atonements: once in the year shall he make atonement upon it throughout your generations: it <em>is</em> most holy unto the LORD. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When thou takest the sum of the children of Israel after their number, then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul unto the LORD, when thou numberest them; that there be no plague among them, when <em>thou</em> numberest them. <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This they shall give, every one that passeth among them that are numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary: (a shekel <em>is</em> twenty gerahs:) an half shekel <em>shall be</em> the offering of the LORD. <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Every one that passeth among them that are numbered, from twenty years old and above, shall give an offering unto the LORD. <a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than half a shekel, when <em>they</em> give an offering unto the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls. <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thou shalt take the atonement money of the children of Israel, and shalt appoint it for the service of the tabernacle of the congregation; that it may be a memorial unto the children of Israel before the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls. <a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou shalt also make a laver <em>of</em> brass, and his foot <em>also of</em> brass, to wash <em>withal</em>: and thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar, and thou shalt put water therein. <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet thereat: <a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation, they shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn offering made by fire unto the LORD: <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die not: and it shall be a statute for ever to them, <em>even</em> to him and to his seed throughout their generations. <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Moreover the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Take thou also unto thee principal spices, of pure myrrh five hundred <em>shekels</em>, and of sweet cinnamon half so much, <em>even</em> two hundred and fifty <em>shekels</em>, and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty <em>shekels</em>, <a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And of cassia five hundred <em>shekels</em>, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of oil olive an hin: <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And thou shalt make it an oil of holy ointment, an ointment compound after the art of the apothecary: it shall be an holy anointing oil. <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And thou shalt anoint the tabernacle of the congregation therewith, and the ark of the testimony, <a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the table and all his vessels, and the candlestick and his vessels, and the altar of incense, <a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the altar of burnt offering with all his vessels, and the laver and his foot. <a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And thou shalt sanctify them, that they may be most holy: whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy. <a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them, that <em>they</em> may minister unto me in the priest's office. <a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, This shall be an holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations. <a id="c30_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make <em>any other</em> like it, after the composition of it: it <em>is</em> holy, <em>and</em> it shall be holy unto you. <a id="c30_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Whosoever compoundeth <em>any</em> like it, or whosoever putteth <em>any</em> of it upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his people. <a id="c30_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Take unto thee sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and galbanum; <em>these</em> sweet spices with pure frankincense: of each shall there be a like <em>weight</em>: <a id="c30_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And thou shalt make it a perfume, a confection after the art of the apothecary, tempered together, pure <em>and</em> holy: <a id="c30_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And thou shalt beat <em>some</em> of it very small, and put of it before the testimony in the tabernacle of the congregation, where I will meet with thee: it shall be unto you most holy. <a id="c30_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And <em>as for</em> the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not make to yourselves according to the composition thereof: it shall be unto thee holy for the LORD. <a id="c30_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Whosoever shall make like unto that, to smell thereto, shall even be cut off from his people.

</body>
</html>