<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these <em>are</em> the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy souls: for Joseph was in Egypt <em>already</em>. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Joseph died, and all his brethren, and all that generation. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the land was filled with them. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel <em>are</em> more and mightier than we: <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Come on, let us deal wisely with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fight against us, and <em>so</em> get them up out of the land. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom and Raamses. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. And they were grieved because of the children of Israel. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigour: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in morter, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all their service, wherein they made them serve, <em>was</em> with rigour. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the name of the one <em>was</em> Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah: <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he said, When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and see <em>them</em> upon the stools; if it <em>be</em> a son, then ye shall kill him: but if it <em>be</em> a daughter, then she shall live. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the midwives feared God, and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the men children alive. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the king of Egypt called for the midwives, and said unto them, Why have ye done this thing, and have saved the men children alive? <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women <em>are</em> not as the Egyptian women; for they <em>are</em> lively, and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore God dealt well with the midwives: and the people multiplied, and waxed very mighty. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that he made them houses. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive.

</body>
</html>