<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And afterward Moses and Aaron went in, and told Pharaoh, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Pharaoh said, Who <em>is</em> the LORD, that I should obey his voice to let Israel go? I know not the LORD, neither will I let Israel go. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they said, The God of the Hebrews hath met with us: let us go, we pray thee, three days' journey into the desert, and sacrifice unto the LORD our God; lest he fall upon us with pestilence, or with the sword. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the king of Egypt said unto them, Wherefore do ye, Moses and Aaron, let the people from their works? get you unto your burdens. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land now <em>are</em> many, and ye make them rest from their burdens. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Pharaoh commanded the same day the taskmasters of the people, and their officers, saying, <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ye shall no more give the people straw to make brick, as heretofore: let them go and gather straw for themselves. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the tale of the bricks, which they did make heretofore, ye shall lay upon them; ye shall not diminish <em>ought</em> thereof: for they <em>be</em> idle; therefore they cry, saying, Let us go <em>and</em> sacrifice to our God. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let there more work be laid upon the men, that they may labour therein; and let them not regard vain words. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers, and they spake to the people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will not give you straw. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Go ye, get you straw where ye can find it: yet not ought of your work shall be diminished. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the taskmasters hasted <em>them</em>, saying, Fulfil your works, <em>your</em> daily tasks, as when there was straw. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, <em>and</em> demanded, Wherefore have ye not fulfilled your task in making brick both yesterday and to day, as heretofore? <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried unto Pharaoh, saying, Wherefore dealest thou thus with thy servants? <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There is no straw given unto thy servants, and they say to us, Make brick: and, behold, thy servants <em>are</em> beaten; but the fault <em>is</em> in thine own people. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But he said, Ye <em>are</em> idle, <em>ye are</em> idle: therefore ye say, Let us go <em>and</em> do sacrifice to the LORD. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Go therefore now, <em>and</em> work; for there shall no straw be given you, yet shall ye deliver the tale of bricks. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the officers of the children of Israel did see <em>that</em> they <em>were</em> in evil <em>case</em>, after it was said, Ye shall not minish <em>ought</em> from your bricks of your daily task. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came forth from Pharaoh: <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they said unto them, The LORD look upon you, and judge; because ye have made our savour to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to slay us. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, Lord, wherefore hast thou <em>so</em> evil entreated this people? why <em>is</em> it <em>that</em> thou hast sent me? <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, he hath done evil to this people; neither hast thou delivered thy people at all.

</body>
</html>