<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took <em>to wife</em> a daughter of Levi. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the woman conceived, and bare a son: and when she saw him that he <em>was a</em> goodly <em>child</em>, she hid him three months. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child therein; and she laid <em>it</em> in the flags by the river's brink. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash <em>herself</em> at the river; and her maidens walked along by the river's side; and when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when she had opened <em>it</em>, she saw the child: and, behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This <em>is one</em> of the Hebrews' children. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee? <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maid went and called the child's mother. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and nurse it for me, and I will give <em>thee</em> thy wages. And the woman took the child, and nursed it. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses: and she said, Because I drew him out of the water. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: and he spied an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that <em>there was</em> no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together: and he said to him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thou killedst the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely this thing is known. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian: and he sat down by a well. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters: and they came and drew <em>water</em>, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the shepherds came and drove them away: but Moses stood up and helped them, and watered their flock. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, How <em>is it that</em> ye are come so soon to day? <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew <em>water</em> enough for us, and watered the flock. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said unto his daughters, And where <em>is</em> he? why <em>is</em> it <em>that</em> ye have left the man? call him, that he may eat bread. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And she bare <em>him</em> a son, and he called his name Gershom: for he said, I have been a stranger in a strange land. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egypt died: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto <em>them</em>.

</body>
</html>