<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 33</h2>

<a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Depart, <em>and</em> go up hence, thou and the people which thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt, unto the land which I sware unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, Unto thy seed will I give it: <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will send an angel before thee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite: <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Unto a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of thee; for thou <em>art</em> a stiffnecked people: lest I consume thee in the way. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: and no man did put on him his ornaments. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For the LORD had said unto Moses, Say unto the children of Israel, Ye <em>are</em> a stiffnecked people: I will come up into the midst of thee in a moment, and consume thee: therefore now put off thy ornaments from thee, that I may know what to do unto thee. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments by the mount Horeb. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Moses took the tabernacle, and pitched it without the camp, afar off from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of the congregation. And it came to pass, <em>that</em> every one which sought the LORD went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which <em>was</em> without the camp. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the tabernacle, <em>that</em> all the people rose up, and stood every man <em>at</em> his tent door, and looked after Moses, until he was gone into the tabernacle. <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended, and stood <em>at</em> the door of the tabernacle, and <em>the LORD</em> talked with Moses. <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand <em>at</em> the tabernacle door: and all the people rose up and worshipped, every man <em>in</em> his tent door. <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Moses said unto the LORD, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people: and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight. <a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, shew me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in thy sight: and consider that this nation <em>is</em> thy people. <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he said, My presence shall go <em>with thee</em>, and I will give thee rest. <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said unto him, If thy presence go not <em>with me</em>, carry us not up hence. <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have found grace in thy sight? <em>is it</em> not in that thou goest with us? so shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that <em>are</em> upon the face of the earth. <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken: for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I know thee by name. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, I beseech thee, shew me thy glory. <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I will proclaim the name of the LORD before thee; and will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will shew mercy on whom I will shew mercy. <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said, Thou canst not see my face: for there shall no man see me, and live. <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the LORD said, Behold, <em>there is</em> a place by me, and thou shalt stand upon a rock: <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And it shall come to pass, while my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a clift of the rock, and will cover thee with my hand while I pass by: <a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will take away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face shall not be seen.

</body>
</html>