<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Send thou men, that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel: of every tribe of their fathers shall ye send a man, every one a ruler among them. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Moses by the commandment of the LORD sent them from the wilderness of Paran: all those men <em>were</em> heads of the children of Israel. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And these <em>were</em> their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Of the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea the son of Nun. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Of the tribe of Joseph, <em>namely</em>, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These <em>are</em> the names of the men which Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Oshea the son of Nun Jehoshua. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said unto them, Get you up this <em>way</em> southward, and go up into the mountain: <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And see the land, what it <em>is</em>; and the people that dwelleth therein, whether they <em>be</em> strong or weak, few or many; <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And what the land <em>is</em> that they dwell in, whether it <em>be</em> good or bad; and what cities <em>they be</em> that they dwell in, whether in tents, or in strong holds; <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And what the land <em>is</em>, whether it <em>be</em> fat or lean, whether there be wood therein, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time <em>was</em> the time of the firstripe grapes. <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So they went up, and searched the land from the wilderness of Zin unto Rehob, as men come to Hamath. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they ascended by the south, and came unto Hebron; where Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, <em>were</em>. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.) <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they came unto the brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff; and <em>they brought</em> of the pomegranates, and of the figs. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The place was called the brook Eshcol, because of the cluster of grapes which the children of Israel cut down from thence. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they returned from searching of the land after forty days. <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word unto them, and unto all the congregation, and shewed them the fruit of the land. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they told him, and said, We came unto the land whither thou sentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey; and this <em>is</em> the fruit of it. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Nevertheless the people <em>be</em> strong that dwell in the land, and the cities <em>are</em> walled, <em>and</em> very great: and moreover we saw the children of Anak there. <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south: and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amorites, dwell in the mountains: and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the coast of Jordan. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it. <a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people; for they <em>are</em> stronger than we. <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land, through which we have gone to search it, <em>is</em> a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof; and all the people that we saw in it <em>are</em> men of a great stature. <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, <em>which come</em> of the giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.

</body>
</html>