<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 23</h2>

<a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven oxen and seven rams. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Balak did as Balaam had spoken; and Balak and Balaam offered on <em>every</em> altar a bullock and a ram. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Balaam said unto Balak, Stand by thy burnt offering, and I will go: peradventure the LORD will come to meet me: and whatsoever he sheweth me I will tell thee. And he went to an high place. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And God met Balaam: and he said unto him, I have prepared seven altars, and I have offered upon <em>every</em> altar a bullock and a ram. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the LORD put a word in Balaam's mouth, and said, Return unto Balak, and thus thou shalt speak. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he returned unto him, and, lo, he stood by his burnt sacrifice, he, and all the princes of Moab. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he took up his parable, and said, Balak the king of Moab hath brought me from Aram, out of the mountains of the east, <em>saying</em>, Come, curse me Jacob, and come, defy Israel. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How shall I curse, whom God hath not cursed? or how shall I defy, <em>whom</em> the LORD hath not defied? <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For from the top of the rocks I see him, and from the hills I behold him: lo, the people shall dwell alone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who can count the dust of Jacob, and the number of the fourth <em>part</em> of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his! <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thou done unto me? I took thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast blessed <em>them</em> altogether. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak that which the LORD hath put in my mouth? <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Balak said unto him, Come, I pray thee, with me unto another place, from whence thou mayest see them: thou shalt see but the utmost part of them, and shalt not see them all: and curse me them from thence. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he brought him into the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered a bullock and a ram on <em>every</em> altar. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said unto Balak, Stand here by thy burnt offering, while I meet <em>the LORD</em> yonder. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the LORD met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said, Go again unto Balak, and say thus. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when he came to him, behold, he stood by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said unto him, What hath the LORD spoken? <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he took up his parable, and said, Rise up, Balak, and hear; hearken unto me, thou son of Zippor: <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God <em>is</em> not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath he said, and shall he not do <em>it</em>? or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good? <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, I have received <em>commandment</em> to bless: and he hath blessed; and I cannot reverse it. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seen perverseness in Israel: the LORD his God <em>is</em> with him, and the shout of a king <em>is</em> among them. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> God brought them out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn. <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Surely <em>there is</em> no enchantment against Jacob, neither <em>is there</em> any divination against Israel: according to this time it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel, What hath God wrought! <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Behold, the people shall rise up as a great lion, and lift up himself as a young lion: he shall not lie down until he eat <em>of</em> the prey, and drink the blood of the slain. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Balak said unto Balaam, Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all. <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But Balaam answered and said unto Balak, Told not I thee, saying, All that the LORD speaketh, that I must do? <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Balak said unto Balaam, Come, I pray thee, I will bring thee unto another place; peradventure it will please God that thou mayest curse me them from thence. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Balak brought Balaam unto the top of Peor, that looketh toward Jeshimon. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams. <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bullock and a ram on <em>every</em> altar.

</body>
</html>