<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 28</h2>

<a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering, <em>and</em> my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, <em>for</em> a sweet savour unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt say unto them, This <em>is</em> the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the LORD; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, <em>for</em> a continual burnt offering. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even; <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And a tenth <em>part</em> of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth <em>part</em> of an hin of beaten oil. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> <em>It is</em> a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the drink offering thereof <em>shall be</em> the fourth <em>part</em> of an hin for the one lamb: in the holy <em>place</em> shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured unto the LORD <em>for</em> a drink offering. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offering of the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, thou shalt offer <em>it</em>, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour <em>for</em> a meat offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering thereof: <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>This is</em> the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering. <a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot; <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And three tenth deals of flour <em>for</em> a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth deals of flour <em>for</em> a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram; <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil <em>for</em> a meat offering unto one lamb; <em>for</em> a burnt offering of a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD. <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine unto a bullock, and the third <em>part</em> of an hin unto a ram, and a fourth <em>part</em> of an hin unto a lamb: this <em>is</em> the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the LORD shall be offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering. <a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And in the fourteenth day of the first month <em>is</em> the passover of the LORD. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And in the fifteenth day of this month <em>is</em> the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In the first day <em>shall be</em> an holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work <em>therein</em>: <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire <em>for</em> a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto you without blemish: <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And their meat offering <em>shall be of</em> flour mingled with oil: three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram; <a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A several tenth deal shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs: <a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And one goat <em>for</em> a sin offering, to make an atonement for you. <a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which <em>is</em> for a continual burnt offering. <a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering. <a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And on the seventh day ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work. <a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering unto the LORD, after your weeks <em>be out</em>, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: <a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But ye shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year; <a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And their meat offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto one bullock, two tenth deals unto one ram, <a id="c28_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> A several tenth deal unto one lamb, throughout the seven lambs; <a id="c28_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> <em>And</em> one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you. <a id="c28_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Ye shall offer <em>them</em> beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and their drink offerings.

</body>
</html>