<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These also <em>are</em> the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day <em>that</em> the LORD spake with Moses in mount Sinai. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And these <em>are</em> the names of the sons of Aaron; Nadab the firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> These <em>are</em> the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests which were anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest's office. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Nadab and Abihu died before the LORD, when they offered strange fire before the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children: and Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest's office in the sight of Aaron their father. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Bring the tribe of Levi near, and present them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister unto him. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they shall keep his charge, and the charge of the whole congregation before the tabernacle of the congregation, to do the service of the tabernacle. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they shall keep all the instruments of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the charge of the children of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aaron and to his sons: they <em>are</em> wholly given unto him out of the children of Israel. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall wait on their priest's office: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I, behold, I have taken the Levites from among the children of Israel instead of all the firstborn that openeth the matrix among the children of Israel: therefore the Levites shall be mine; <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Because all the firstborn <em>are</em> mine; <em>for</em> on the day that I smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt I hallowed unto me all the firstborn in Israel, both man and beast: mine shall they be: I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying, <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Number the children of Levi after the house of their fathers, by their families: every male from a month old and upward shalt thou number them. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Moses numbered them according to the word of the LORD, as he was commanded. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And these were the sons of Levi by their names; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And these <em>are</em> the names of the sons of Gershon by their families; Libni, and Shimei. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the sons of Kohath by their families; Amram, and Izehar, Hebron, and Uzziel. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the sons of Merari by their families; Mahli, and Mushi. These <em>are</em> the families of the Levites according to the house of their fathers. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Of Gershon <em>was</em> the family of the Libnites, and the family of the Shimites: these <em>are</em> the families of the Gershonites. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Those that were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, <em>even</em> those that were numbered of them <em>were</em> seven thousand and five hundred. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The families of the Gershonites shall pitch behind the tabernacle westward. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the chief of the house of the father of the Gershonites <em>shall be</em> Eliasaph the son of Lael. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the tabernacle of the congregation <em>shall be</em> the tabernacle, and the tent, the covering thereof, and the hanging for the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the hangings of the court, and the curtain for the door of the court, which <em>is</em> by the tabernacle, and by the altar round about, and the cords of it for all the service thereof. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And of Kohath <em>was</em> the family of the Amramites, and the family of the Izeharites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the family of the Uzzielites: these <em>are</em> the families of the Kohathites. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, <em>were</em> eight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The families of the sons of Kohath shall pitch on the side of the tabernacle southward. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the chief of the house of the father of the families of the Kohathites <em>shall be</em> Elizaphan the son of Uzziel. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And their charge <em>shall be</em> the ark, and the table, and the candlestick, and the altars, and the vessels of the sanctuary wherewith they minister, and the hanging, and all the service thereof. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest <em>shall be</em> chief over the chief of the Levites, <em>and have</em> the oversight of them that keep the charge of the sanctuary. <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Of Merari <em>was</em> the family of the Mahlites, and the family of the Mushites: these <em>are</em> the families of Merari. <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And those that were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, <em>were</em> six thousand and two hundred. <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the chief of the house of the father of the families of Merari <em>was</em> Zuriel the son of Abihail: <em>these</em> shall pitch on the side of the tabernacle northward. <a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And <em>under</em> the custody and charge of the sons of Merari <em>shall be</em> the boards of the tabernacle, and the bars thereof, and the pillars thereof, and the sockets thereof, and all the vessels thereof, and all that serveth thereto, <a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the pillars of the court round about, and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords. <a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But those that encamp before the tabernacle toward the east, <em>even</em> before the tabernacle of the congregation eastward, <em>shall be</em> Moses, and Aaron and his sons, keeping the charge of the sanctuary for the charge of the children of Israel; and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. <a id="c3_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> All that were numbered of the Levites, which Moses and Aaron numbered at the commandment of the LORD, throughout their families, all the males from a month old and upward, <em>were</em> twenty and two thousand. <a id="c3_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Number all the firstborn of the males of the children of Israel from a month old and upward, and take the number of their names. <a id="c3_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And thou shalt take the Levites for me (I <em>am</em> the LORD) instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel; and the cattle of the Levites instead of all the firstlings among the cattle of the children of Israel. <a id="c3_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Moses numbered, as the LORD commanded him, all the firstborn among the children of Israel. <a id="c3_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And all the firstborn males by the number of names, from a month old and upward, of those that were numbered of them, were twenty and two thousand two hundred and threescore and thirteen. <a id="c3_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c3_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Take the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle; and the Levites shall be mine: I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c3_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And for those that are to be redeemed of the two hundred and threescore and thirteen of the firstborn of the children of Israel, which are more than the Levites; <a id="c3_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Thou shalt even take five shekels apiece by the poll, after the shekel of the sanctuary shalt thou take <em>them</em>: (the shekel <em>is</em> twenty gerahs:) <a id="c3_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And thou shalt give the money, wherewith the odd number of them is to be redeemed, unto Aaron and to his sons. <a id="c3_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And Moses took the redemption money of them that were over and above them that were redeemed by the Levites: <a id="c3_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Of the firstborn of the children of Israel took he the money; a thousand three hundred and threescore and five <em>shekels</em>, after the shekel of the sanctuary: <a id="c3_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And Moses gave the money of them that were redeemed unto Aaron and to his sons, according to the word of the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses.

</body>
</html>