<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let the children of Israel also keep the passover at his appointed season. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the fourteenth day of this month, at even, ye shall keep it in his appointed season: according to all the rites of it, and according to all the ceremonies thereof, shall ye keep it. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, that they should keep the passover. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month at even in the wilderness of Sinai: according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And there were certain men, who were defiled by the dead body of a man, that they could not keep the passover on that day: and they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day: <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And those men said unto him, We <em>are</em> defiled by the dead body of a man: wherefore are we kept back, that we may not offer an offering of the LORD in his appointed season among the children of Israel? <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Moses said unto them, Stand still, and I will hear what the LORD will command concerning you. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your posterity shall be unclean by reason of a dead body, or <em>be</em> in a journey afar off, yet he shall keep the passover unto the LORD. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The fourteenth day of the second month at even they shall keep it, <em>and</em> eat it with unleavened bread and bitter <em>herbs</em>. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break any bone of it: according to all the ordinances of the passover they shall keep it. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But the man that <em>is</em> clean, and is not in a journey, and forbeareth to keep the passover, even the same soul shall be cut off from among his people: because he brought not the offering of the LORD in his appointed season, that man shall bear his sin. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep the passover unto the LORD; according to the ordinance of the passover, and according to the manner thereof, so shall he do: ye shall have one ordinance, both for the stranger, and for him that was born in the land. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloud covered the tabernacle, <em>namely</em>, the tent of the testimony: and at even there was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until the morning. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So it was alway: the cloud covered it <em>by day</em>, and the appearance of fire by night. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then after that the children of Israel journeyed: and in the place where the cloud abode, there the children of Israel pitched their tents. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> At the commandment of the LORD the children of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of the LORD they pitched: as long as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle they rested in their tents. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when the cloud tarried long upon the tabernacle many days, then the children of Israel kept the charge of the LORD, and journeyed not. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And <em>so</em> it was, when the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle; according to the commandment of the LORD they abode in their tents, and according to the commandment of the LORD they journeyed. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And <em>so</em> it was, when the cloud abode from even unto the morning, and <em>that</em> the cloud was taken up in the morning, then they journeyed: whether <em>it was</em> by day or by night that the cloud was taken up, they journeyed. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Or <em>whether it were</em> two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, remaining thereon, the children of Israel abode in their tents, and journeyed not: but when it was taken up, they journeyed. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> At the commandment of the LORD they rested in the tents, and at the commandment of the LORD they journeyed: they kept the charge of the LORD, at the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

</body>
</html>