<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tabernacle of the congregation, on the first <em>day</em> of the second month, in the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, after their families, by the house of their fathers, with the number of <em>their</em> names, every male by their polls; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> From twenty years old and upward, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel: thou and Aaron shall number them by their armies. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one head of the house of his fathers. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And these <em>are</em> the names of the men that shall stand with you: of <em>the tribe of</em> Reuben; Elizur the son of Shedeur. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Of Simeon; Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Of Judah; Nahshon the son of Amminadab. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Of Issachar; Nethaneel the son of Zuar. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Of Zebulun; Eliab the son of Helon. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Of the children of Joseph: of Ephraim; Elishama the son of Ammihud: of Manasseh; Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Of Benjamin; Abidan the son of Gideoni. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Of Dan; Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Of Asher; Pagiel the son of Ocran. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Of Gad; Eliasaph the son of Deuel. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Of Naphtali; Ahira the son of Enan. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These <em>were</em> the renowned of the congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers, heads of thousands in Israel. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Moses and Aaron took these men which are expressed by <em>their</em> names: <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they assembled all the congregation together on the first <em>day</em> of the second month, and they declared their pedigrees after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As the LORD commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the children of Reuben, Israel's eldest son, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Reuben, <em>were</em> forty and six thousand and five hundred. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Of the children of Simeon, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, those that were numbered of them, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Simeon, <em>were</em> fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Of the children of Gad, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Gad, <em>were</em> forty and five thousand six hundred and fifty. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Of the children of Judah, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Judah, <em>were</em> threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Of the children of Issachar, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Issachar, <em>were</em> fifty and four thousand and four hundred. <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Of the children of Zebulun, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Zebulun, <em>were</em> fifty and seven thousand and four hundred. <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Of the children of Joseph, <em>namely</em>, of the children of Ephraim, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Ephraim, <em>were</em> forty thousand and five hundred. <a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Of the children of Manasseh, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Manasseh, <em>were</em> thirty and two thousand and two hundred. <a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Of the children of Benjamin, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Benjamin, <em>were</em> thirty and five thousand and four hundred. <a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Of the children of Dan, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Dan, <em>were</em> threescore and two thousand and seven hundred. <a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Of the children of Asher, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Asher, <em>were</em> forty and one thousand and five hundred. <a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Of the children of Naphtali, throughout their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war; <a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Those that were numbered of them, <em>even</em> of the tribe of Naphtali, <em>were</em> fifty and three thousand and four hundred. <a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> These <em>are</em> those that were numbered, which Moses and Aaron numbered, and the princes of Israel, <em>being</em> twelve men: each one was for the house of his fathers. <a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> So were all those that were numbered of the children of Israel, by the house of their fathers, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war in Israel; <a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Even all they that were numbered were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. <a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were not numbered among them. <a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> For the LORD had spoken unto Moses, saying, <a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Only thou shalt not number the tribe of Levi, neither take the sum of them among the children of Israel: <a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But thou shalt appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of testimony, and over all the vessels thereof, and over all things that <em>belong</em> to it: they shall bear the tabernacle, and all the vessels thereof; and they shall minister unto it, and shall encamp round about the tabernacle. <a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Levites shall take it down: and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shall set it up: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death. <a id="c1_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And the children of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man by his own camp, and every man by his own standard, throughout their hosts. <a id="c1_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> But the Levites shall pitch round about the tabernacle of testimony, that there be no wrath upon the congregation of the children of Israel: and the Levites shall keep the charge of the tabernacle of testimony. <a id="c1_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did they.

</body>
</html>