<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 14</h2>

<a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And all the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and the people wept that night. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron: and the whole congregation said unto them, Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt! or would God we had died in this wilderness! <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And wherefore hath the LORD brought us unto this land, to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be a prey? were it not better for us to return into Egypt? <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they said one to another, Let us make a captain, and let us return into Egypt. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, <em>which were</em> of them that searched the land, rent their clothes: <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The land, which we passed through to search it, <em>is</em> an exceeding good land. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If the LORD delight in us, then he will bring us into this land, and give it us; a land which floweth with milk and honey. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Only rebel not ye against the LORD, neither fear ye the people of the land; for they <em>are</em> bread for us: their defence is departed from them, and the LORD <em>is</em> with us: fear them not. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But all the congregation bade stone them with stones. And the glory of the LORD appeared in the tabernacle of the congregation before all the children of Israel. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me? and how long will it be ere they believe me, for all the signs which I have shewed among them? <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will smite them with the pestilence, and disinherit them, and will make of thee a greater nation and mightier than they. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Moses said unto the LORD, Then the Egyptians shall hear <em>it</em>, (for thou broughtest up this people in thy might from among them;) <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they will tell <em>it</em> to the inhabitants of this land: <em>for</em> they have heard that thou LORD <em>art</em> among this people, that thou LORD art seen face to face, and <em>that</em> thy cloud standeth over them, and <em>that</em> thou goest before them, by day time in a pillar of a cloud, and in a pillar of fire by night. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now <em>if</em> thou shalt kill <em>all</em> this people as one man, then the nations which have heard the fame of thee will speak, saying, <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land which he sware unto them, therefore he hath slain them in the wilderness. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And now, I beseech thee, let the power of my Lord be great, according as thou hast spoken, saying, <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The LORD <em>is</em> longsuffering, and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity and transgression, and by no means clearing <em>the guilty</em>, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth <em>generation</em>. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniquity of this people according unto the greatness of thy mercy, and as thou hast forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the LORD said, I have pardoned according to thy word: <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But <em>as</em> truly <em>as</em> I live, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the LORD. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Because all those men which have seen my glory, and my miracles, which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have tempted me now these ten times, and have not hearkened to my voice; <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Surely they shall not see the land which I sware unto their fathers, neither shall any of them that provoked me see it: <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereinto he went; and his seed shall possess it. <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> (Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwelt in the valley.) To morrow turn you, and get you into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea. <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> How long <em>shall I bear with</em> this evil congregation, which murmur against me? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against me. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Say unto them, <em>As truly as</em> I live, saith the LORD, as ye have spoken in mine ears, so will I do to you: <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Your carcases shall fall in this wilderness; and all that were numbered of you, according to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward, which have murmured against me, <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Doubtless ye shall not come into the land, <em>concerning</em> which I sware to make you dwell therein, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun. <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But your little ones, which ye said should be a prey, them will I bring in, and they shall know the land which ye have despised. <a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But <em>as for</em> you, your carcases, they shall fall in this wilderness. <a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And your children shall wander in the wilderness forty years, and bear your whoredoms, until your carcases be wasted in the wilderness. <a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> After the number of the days in which ye searched the land, <em>even</em> forty days, each day for a year, shall ye bear your iniquities, <em>even</em> forty years, and ye shall know my breach of promise. <a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I the LORD have said, I will surely do it unto all this evil congregation, that are gathered together against me: in this wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die. <a id="c14_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the men, which Moses sent to search the land, who returned, and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up a slander upon the land, <a id="c14_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Even those men that did bring up the evil report upon the land, died by the plague before the LORD. <a id="c14_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, <em>which were</em> of the men that went to search the land, lived <em>still</em>. <a id="c14_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Moses told these sayings unto all the children of Israel: and the people mourned greatly. <a id="c14_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And they rose up early in the morning, and gat them up into the top of the mountain, saying, Lo, we <em>be here</em>, and will go up unto the place which the LORD hath promised: for we have sinned. <a id="c14_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And Moses said, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandment of the LORD? but it shall not prosper. <a id="c14_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Go not up, for the LORD <em>is</em> not among you; that ye be not smitten before your enemies. <a id="c14_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> For the Amalekites and the Canaanites <em>are</em> there before you, and ye shall fall by the sword: because ye are turned away from the LORD, therefore the LORD will not be with you. <a id="c14_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> But they presumed to go up unto the hill top: nevertheless the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and Moses, departed not out of the camp. <a id="c14_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then the Amalekites came down, and the Canaanites which dwelt in that hill, and smote them, and discomfited them, <em>even</em> unto Hormah.

</body>
</html>