<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 22</h2>

<a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan <em>by</em> Jericho. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Moab was sore afraid of the people, because they <em>were</em> many: and Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Moab said unto the elders of Midian, Now shall this company lick up all <em>that are</em> round about us, as the ox licketh up the grass of the field. And Balak the son of Zippor <em>was</em> king of the Moabites at that time. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He sent messengers therefore unto Balaam the son of Beor to Pethor, which <em>is</em> by the river of the land of the children of his people, to call him, saying, Behold, there is a people come out from Egypt: behold, they cover the face of the earth, and they abide over against me: <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Come now therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people; for they <em>are</em> too mighty for me: peradventure I shall prevail, <em>that</em> we may smite them, and <em>that</em> I may drive them out of the land: for I wot that he whom thou blessest <em>is</em> blessed, and he whom thou cursest is cursed. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the rewards of divination in their hand; and they came unto Balaam, and spake unto him the words of Balak. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said unto them, Lodge here this night, and I will bring you word again, as the LORD shall speak unto me: and the princes of Moab abode with Balaam. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And God came unto Balaam, and said, What men <em>are</em> these with thee? <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Balaam said unto God, Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, hath sent unto me, <em>saying</em>, <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, <em>there is</em> a people come out of Egypt, which covereth the face of the earth: come now, curse me them; peradventure I shall be able to overcome them, and drive them out. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them; thou shalt not curse the people: for they <em>are</em> blessed. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Balaam rose up in the morning, and said unto the princes of Balak, Get you into your land: for the LORD refuseth to give me leave to go with you. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the princes of Moab rose up, and they went unto Balak, and said, Balaam refuseth to come with us. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Balak sent yet again princes, more, and more honourable than they. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they came to Balaam, and said to him, Thus saith Balak the son of Zippor, Let nothing, I pray thee, hinder thee from coming unto me: <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I will promote thee unto very great honour, and I will do whatsoever thou sayest unto me: come therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people. <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak, If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the LORD my God, to do less or more. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now therefore, I pray you, tarry ye also here this night, that I may know what the LORD will say unto me more. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And God came unto Balaam at night, and said unto him, If the men come to call thee, rise up, <em>and</em> go with them; but yet the word which I shall say unto thee, that shalt thou do. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Balaam rose up in the morning, and saddled his ass, and went with the princes of Moab. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And God's anger was kindled because he went: and the angel of the LORD stood in the way for an adversary against him. Now he was riding upon his ass, and his two servants <em>were</em> with him. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the ass saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and the ass turned aside out of the way, and went into the field: and Balaam smote the ass, to turn her into the way. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But the angel of the LORD stood in a path of the vineyards, a wall <em>being</em> on this side, and a wall on that side. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she thrust herself unto the wall, and crushed Balaam's foot against the wall: and he smote her again. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the angel of the LORD went further, and stood in a narrow place, where <em>was</em> no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she fell down under Balaam: and Balaam's anger was kindled, and he smote the ass with a staff. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the LORD opened the mouth of the ass, and she said unto Balaam, What have I done unto thee, that thou hast smitten me these three times? <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Balaam said unto the ass, Because thou hast mocked me: I would there were a sword in mine hand, for now would I kill thee. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the ass said unto Balaam, <em>Am</em> not I thine ass, upon which thou hast ridden ever since <em>I was</em> thine unto this day? was I ever wont to do so unto thee? And he said, Nay. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and he bowed down his head, and fell flat on his face. <a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the angel of the LORD said unto him, Wherefore hast thou smitten thine ass these three times? behold, I went out to withstand thee, because <em>thy</em> way is perverse before me: <a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the ass saw me, and turned from me these three times: unless she had turned from me, surely now also I had slain thee, and saved her alive. <a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Balaam said unto the angel of the LORD, I have sinned; for I knew not that thou stoodest in the way against me: now therefore, if it displease thee, I will get me back again. <a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the angel of the LORD said unto Balaam, Go with the men: but only the word that I shall speak unto thee, that thou shalt speak. So Balaam went with the princes of Balak. <a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And when Balak heard that Balaam was come, he went out to meet him unto a city of Moab, which <em>is</em> in the border of Arnon, which <em>is</em> in the utmost coast. <a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Balak said unto Balaam, Did I not earnestly send unto thee to call thee? wherefore camest thou not unto me? am I not able indeed to promote thee to honour? <a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Balaam said unto Balak, Lo, I am come unto thee: have I now any power at all to say any thing? the word that God putteth in my mouth, that shall I speak. <a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Balaam went with Balak, and they came unto Kirjathhuzoth. <a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Balak offered oxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam, and to the princes that <em>were</em> with him. <a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And it came to pass on the morrow, that Balak took Balaam, and brought him up into the high places of Baal, that thence he might see the utmost <em>part</em> of the people.

</body>
</html>