<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 17</h2>

<a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, and take of every one of them a rod according to the house of <em>their</em> fathers, of all their princes according to the house of their fathers twelve rods: write thou every man's name upon his rod. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi: for one rod <em>shall be</em> for the head of the house of their fathers. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou shalt lay them up in the tabernacle of the congregation before the testimony, where I will meet with you. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it shall come to pass, <em>that</em> the man's rod, whom I shall choose, shall blossom: and I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, whereby they murmur against you. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, and every one of their princes gave him a rod apiece, for each prince one, according to their fathers' houses, <em>even</em> twelve rods: and the rod of Aaron <em>was</em> among their rods. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Moses laid up the rods before the LORD in the tabernacle of witness. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass, that on the morrow Moses went into the tabernacle of witness; and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Moses brought out all the rods from before the LORD unto all the children of Israel: and they looked, and took every man his rod. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Bring Aaron's rod again before the testimony, to be kept for a token against the rebels; and thou shalt quite take away their murmurings from me, that they die not. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Moses did <em>so</em>: as the LORD commanded him, so did he. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the children of Israel spake unto Moses, saying, Behold, we die, we perish, we all perish. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whosoever cometh any thing near unto the tabernacle of the LORD shall die: shall we be consumed with dying?

</body>
</html>