<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 30</h2>

<a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Moses spake unto the heads of the tribes concerning the children of Israel, saying, This <em>is</em> the thing which the LORD hath commanded. <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If a man vow a vow unto the LORD, or swear an oath to bind his soul with a bond; he shall not break his word, he shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth. <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If a woman also vow a vow unto the LORD, and bind herself by a bond, <em>being</em> in her father's house in her youth; <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And her father hear her vow, and her bond wherewith she hath bound her soul, and her father shall hold his peace at her: then all her vows shall stand, and every bond wherewith she hath bound her soul shall stand. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if her father disallow her in the day that he heareth; not any of her vows, or of her bonds wherewith she hath bound her soul, shall stand: and the LORD shall forgive her, because her father disallowed her. <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if she had at all an husband, when she vowed, or uttered ought out of her lips, wherewith she bound her soul; <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And her husband heard <em>it,</em> and held his peace at her in the day that he heard <em>it</em>: then her vows shall stand, and her bonds wherewith she bound her soul shall stand. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But if her husband disallowed her on the day that he heard <em>it</em>; then he shall make her vow which she vowed, and that which she uttered with her lips, wherewith she bound her soul, of none effect: and the LORD shall forgive her. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But every vow of a widow, and of her that is divorced, wherewith they have bound their souls, shall stand against her. <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And if she vowed in her husband's house, or bound her soul by a bond with an oath; <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And her husband heard <em>it</em>, and held his peace at her, <em>and</em> disallowed her not: then all her vows shall stand, and every bond wherewith she bound her soul shall stand. <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if her husband hath utterly made them void on the day he heard <em>them; then</em> whatsoever proceeded out of her lips concerning her vows, or concerning the bond of her soul, shall not stand: her husband hath made them void; and the LORD shall forgive her. <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict the soul, her husband may establish it, or her husband may make it void. <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But if her husband altogether hold his peace at her from day to day; then he establisheth all her vows, or all her bonds, which <em>are</em> upon her: he confirmeth them, because he held his peace at her in the day that he heard <em>them</em>. <a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But if he shall any ways make them void after that he hath heard <em>them</em>; then he shall bear her iniquity. <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These <em>are</em> the statutes, which the LORD commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, between the father and his daughter, <em>being yet</em> in her youth in her father's house.

</body>
</html>