<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 24</h2>

<a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, he went not, as at other times, to seek for enchantments, but he set his face toward the wilderness. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Balaam lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel abiding <em>in his tents</em> according to their tribes; and the spirit of God came upon him. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said: <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He hath said, which heard the words of God, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling <em>into a trance</em>, but having his eyes open: <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob, <em>and</em> thy tabernacles, O Israel! <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As the valleys are they spread forth, as gardens by the river's side, as the trees of lign aloes which the LORD hath planted, <em>and</em> as cedar trees beside the waters. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He shall pour the water out of his buckets, and his seed <em>shall be</em> in many waters, and his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> God brought him forth out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn: he shall eat up the nations his enemies, and shall break their bones, and pierce <em>them</em> through with his arrows. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He couched, he lay down as a lion, and as a great lion: who shall stir him up? Blessed <em>is</em> he that blesseth thee, and cursed <em>is</em> he that curseth thee. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he smote his hands together: and Balak said unto Balaam, I called thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast altogether blessed <em>them</em> these three times. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore now flee thou to thy place: I thought to promote thee unto great honour; but, lo, the LORD hath kept thee back from honour. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Balaam said unto Balak, Spake I not also to thy messengers which thou sentest unto me, saying, <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the commandment of the LORD, to do <em>either</em> good or bad of mine own mind; <em>but</em> what the LORD saith, that will I speak? <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And now, behold, I go unto my people: come <em>therefore, and</em> I will advertise thee what this people shall do to thy people in the latter days. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said: <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He hath said, which heard the words of God, and knew the knowledge of the most High, <em>which</em> saw the vision of the Almighty, falling <em>into a trance</em>, but having his eyes open: <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I shall see him, but not now: I shall behold him, but not nigh: there shall come a Star out of Jacob, and a Sceptre shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of Moab, and destroy all the children of Sheth. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Edom shall be a possession, Seir also shall be a possession for his enemies; and Israel shall do valiantly. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Out of Jacob shall come he that shall have dominion, and shall destroy him that remaineth of the city. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he looked on Amalek, he took up his parable, and said, Amalek <em>was</em> the first of the nations; but his latter end <em>shall be</em> that he perish for ever. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he looked on the Kenites, and took up his parable, and said, Strong is thy dwellingplace, and thou puttest thy nest in a rock. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Nevertheless the Kenite shall be wasted, until Asshur shall carry thee away captive. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he took up his parable, and said, Alas, who shall live when God doeth this! <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And ships <em>shall come</em> from the coast of Chittim, and shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber, and he also shall perish for ever. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place: and Balak also went his way.

</body>
</html>