<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every man of the children of Israel shall pitch by his own standard, with the ensign of their father's house: far off about the tabernacle of the congregation shall they pitch. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And on the east side toward the rising of the sun shall they of the standard of the camp of Judah pitch throughout their armies: and Nahshon the son of Amminadab <em>shall be</em> captain of the children of Judah. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, <em>were</em> threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And those that do pitch next unto him <em>shall be</em> the tribe of Issachar: and Nethaneel the son of Zuar <em>shall be</em> captain of the children of Issachar. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, <em>were</em> fifty and four thousand and four hundred. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>Then</em> the tribe of Zebulun: and Eliab the son of Helon <em>shall be</em> captain of the children of Zebulun. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, <em>were</em> fifty and seven thousand and four hundred. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All that were numbered in the camp of Judah <em>were</em> an hundred thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred, throughout their armies. These shall first set forth. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> On the south side <em>shall be</em> the standard of the camp of Reuben according to their armies: and the captain of the children of Reuben <em>shall be</em> Elizur the son of Shedeur. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, <em>were</em> forty and six thousand and five hundred. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And those which pitch by him <em>shall be</em> the tribe of Simeon: and the captain of the children of Simeon <em>shall be</em> Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, <em>were</em> fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then the tribe of Gad: and the captain of the sons of Gad <em>shall be</em> Eliasaph the son of Reuel. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, <em>were</em> forty and five thousand and six hundred and fifty. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All that were numbered in the camp of Reuben <em>were</em> an hundred thousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty, throughout their armies. And they shall set forth in the second rank. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then the tabernacle of the congregation shall set forward with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camp: as they encamp, so shall they set forward, every man in his place by their standards. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> On the west side <em>shall be</em> the standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their armies: and the captain of the sons of Ephraim <em>shall be</em> Elishama the son of Ammihud. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, <em>were</em> forty thousand and five hundred. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And by him <em>shall be</em> the tribe of Manasseh: and the captain of the children of Manasseh <em>shall be</em> Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, <em>were</em> thirty and two thousand and two hundred. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then the tribe of Benjamin: and the captain of the sons of Benjamin <em>shall be</em> Abidan the son of Gideoni. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, <em>were</em> thirty and five thousand and four hundred. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim <em>were</em> an hundred thousand and eight thousand and an hundred, throughout their armies. And they shall go forward in the third rank. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The standard of the camp of Dan <em>shall be</em> on the north side by their armies: and the captain of the children of Dan <em>shall be</em> Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, <em>were</em> threescore and two thousand and seven hundred. <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And those that encamp by him <em>shall be</em> the tribe of Asher: and the captain of the children of Asher <em>shall be</em> Pagiel the son of Ocran. <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, <em>were</em> forty and one thousand and five hundred. <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then the tribe of Naphtali: and the captain of the children of Naphtali <em>shall be</em> Ahira the son of Enan. <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, <em>were</em> fifty and three thousand and four hundred. <a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> All they that were numbered in the camp of Dan <em>were</em> an hundred thousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred. They shall go hindmost with their standards. <a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These <em>are</em> those which were numbered of the children of Israel by the house of their fathers: all those that were numbered of the camps throughout their hosts <em>were</em> six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. <a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses. <a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses: so they pitched by their standards, and so they set forward, every one after their families, according to the house of their fathers.

</body>
</html>