<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 21</h2>

<a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And <em>when</em> king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south, heard tell that Israel came by the way of the spies; then he fought against Israel, and took <em>some</em> of them prisoners. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Israel vowed a vow unto the LORD, and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the LORD hearkened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities: and he called the name of the place Hormah. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, to compass the land of Edom: and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the people spake against God, and against Moses, Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? for <em>there is</em> no bread, neither <em>is there any</em> water; and our soul loatheth this light bread. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the LORD sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; and much people of Israel died. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore the people came to Moses, and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the LORD, and against thee; pray unto the LORD, that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole: and it shall come to pass, that every one that is bitten, when he looketh upon it, shall live. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in Oboth. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, in the wilderness which <em>is</em> before Moab, toward the sunrising. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> From thence they removed, and pitched in the valley of Zared. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> From thence they removed, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, which <em>is</em> in the wilderness that cometh out of the coasts of the Amorites: for Arnon <em>is</em> the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore it is said in the book of the wars of the LORD, What he did in the Red sea, and in the brooks of Arnon, <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And at the stream of the brooks that goeth down to the dwelling of Ar, and lieth upon the border of Moab. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And from thence <em>they went</em> to Beer: that <em>is</em> the well whereof the LORD spake unto Moses, Gather the people together, and I will give them water. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then Israel sang this song, Spring up, O well; sing ye unto it: <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The princes digged the well, the nobles of the people digged it, by <em>the direction of</em> the lawgiver, with their staves. And from the wilderness <em>they went</em> to Mattanah: <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And from Mattanah to Nahaliel: and from Nahaliel to Bamoth: <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And from Bamoth <em>in</em> the valley, that <em>is</em> in the country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looketh toward Jeshimon. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, saying, <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let me pass through thy land: we will not turn into the fields, or into the vineyards; we will not drink <em>of</em> the waters of the well: <em>but</em> we will go along by the king's <em>high</em> way, until we be past thy borders. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Sihon would not suffer Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and went out against Israel into the wilderness: and he came to Jahaz, and fought against Israel. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword, and possessed his land from Arnon unto Jabbok, even unto the children of Ammon: for the border of the children of Ammon <em>was</em> strong. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Israel took all these cities: and Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all the villages thereof. <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For Heshbon <em>was</em> the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab, and taken all his land out of his hand, even unto Arnon. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Wherefore they that speak in proverbs say, Come into Heshbon, let the city of Sihon be built and prepared: <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For there is a fire gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon: it hath consumed Ar of Moab, <em>and</em> the lords of the high places of Arnon. <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Woe to thee, Moab! thou art undone, O people of Chemosh: he hath given his sons that escaped, and his daughters, into captivity unto Sihon king of the Amorites. <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> We have shot at them; Heshbon is perished even unto Dibon, and we have laid them waste even unto Nophah, which <em>reacheth</em> unto Medeba. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites. <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Moses sent to spy out Jaazer, and they took the villages thereof, and drove out the Amorites that <em>were</em> there. <a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they turned and went up by the way of Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan went out against them, he, and all his people, to the battle at Edrei. <a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the LORD said unto Moses, Fear him not: for I have delivered him into thy hand, and all his people, and his land; and thou shalt do to him as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, which dwelt at Heshbon. <a id="c21_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> So they smote him, and his sons, and all his people, until there was none left him alive: and they possessed his land.

</body>
</html>