<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 10</h2>

<a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Make thee two trumpets of silver; of a whole piece shalt thou make them: that thou mayest use them for the calling of the assembly, and for the journeying of the camps. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when they shall blow with them, all the assembly shall assemble themselves to thee at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And if they blow <em>but</em> with one <em>trumpet</em>, then the princes, <em>which are</em> heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves unto thee. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When ye blow an alarm, then the camps that lie on the east parts shall go forward. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When ye blow an alarm the second time, then the camps that lie on the south side shall take their journey: they shall blow an alarm for their journeys. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But when the congregation is to be gathered together, ye shall blow, but ye shall not sound an alarm. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow with the trumpets; and they shall be to you for an ordinance for ever throughout your generations. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And if ye go to war in your land against the enemy that oppresseth you, then ye shall blow an alarm with the trumpets; and ye shall be remembered before the LORD your God, and ye shall be saved from your enemies. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Also in the day of your gladness, and in your solemn days, and in the beginnings of your months, ye shall blow with the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings; that they may be to you for a memorial before your God: I <em>am</em> the LORD your God. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass on the twentieth <em>day</em> of the second month, in the second year, that the cloud was taken up from off the tabernacle of the testimony. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the children of Israel took their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they first took their journey according to the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In the first <em>place</em> went the standard of the camp of the children of Judah according to their armies: and over his host <em>was</em> Nahshon the son of Amminadab. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar <em>was</em> Nethaneel the son of Zuar. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun <em>was</em> Eliab the son of Helon. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari set forward, bearing the tabernacle. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the standard of the camp of Reuben set forward according to their armies: and over his host <em>was</em> Elizur the son of Shedeur. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon <em>was</em> Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad <em>was</em> Eliasaph the son of Deuel. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary: and <em>the other</em> did set up the tabernacle against they came. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set forward according to their armies: and over his host <em>was</em> Elishama the son of Ammihud. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And over the host of the tribe of the children of Manasseh <em>was</em> Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin <em>was</em> Abidan the son of Gideoni. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the standard of the camp of the children of Dan set forward, <em>which was</em> the rereward of all the camps throughout their hosts: and over his host <em>was</em> Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher <em>was</em> Pagiel the son of Ocran. <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali <em>was</em> Ahira the son of Enan. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thus <em>were</em> the journeyings of the children of Israel according to their armies, when they set forward. <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Raguel the Midianite, Moses' father in law, We are journeying unto the place of which the LORD said, I will give it you: come thou with us, and we will do thee good: for the LORD hath spoken good concerning Israel. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he said unto him, I will not go; but I will depart to mine own land, and to my kindred. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he said, Leave us not, I pray thee; forasmuch as thou knowest how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and thou mayest be to us instead of eyes. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that what goodness the LORD shall do unto us, the same will we do unto thee. <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they departed from the mount of the LORD three days' journey: and the ark of the covenant of the LORD went before them in the three days' journey, to search out a resting place for them. <a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the cloud of the LORD <em>was</em> upon them by day, when they went out of the camp. <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And it came to pass, when the ark set forward, that Moses said, Rise up, LORD, and let thine enemies be scattered; and let them that hate thee flee before thee. <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And when it rested, he said, Return, O LORD, unto the many thousands of Israel.

</body>
</html>