<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 18</h2>

<a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled together at Shiloh, and set up the tabernacle of the congregation there. And the land was subdued before them. <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And there remained among the children of Israel seven tribes, which had not yet received their inheritance. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, How long <em>are</em> ye slack to go to possess the land, which the LORD God of your fathers hath given you? <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give out from among you three men for <em>each</em> tribe: and I will send them, and they shall rise, and go through the land, and describe it according to the inheritance of them; and they shall come <em>again</em> to me. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they shall divide it into seven parts: Judah shall abide in their coast on the south, and the house of Joseph shall abide in their coasts on the north. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ye shall therefore describe the land <em>into</em> seven parts, and bring <em>the description</em> hither to me, that I may cast lots for you here before the LORD our God. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the Levites have no part among you; for the priesthood of the LORD <em>is</em> their inheritance: and Gad, and Reuben, and half the tribe of Manasseh, have received their inheritance beyond Jordan on the east, which Moses the servant of the LORD gave them. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the men arose, and went away: and Joshua charged them that went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, and describe it, and come again to me, that I may here cast lots for you before the LORD in Shiloh. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the men went and passed through the land, and described it by cities into seven parts in a book, and came <em>again</em> to Joshua to the host at Shiloh. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before the LORD: and there Joshua divided the land unto the children of Israel according to their divisions. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families: and the coast of their lot came forth between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their border on the north side was from Jordan; and the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north side, and went up through the mountains westward; and the goings out thereof were at the wilderness of Bethaven. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the border went over from thence toward Luz, to the side of Luz, which <em>is</em> Bethel, southward; and the border descended to Atarothadar, near the hill that <em>lieth</em> on the south side of the nether Bethhoron. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the border was drawn <em>thence</em>, and compassed the corner of the sea southward, from the hill that <em>lieth</em> before Bethhoron southward; and the goings out thereof were at Kirjathbaal, which <em>is</em> Kirjathjearim, a city of the children of Judah: this <em>was</em> the west quarter. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the south quarter <em>was</em> from the end of Kirjathjearim, and the border went out on the west, and went out to the well of waters of Nephtoah: <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the border came down to the end of the mountain that <em>lieth</em> before the valley of the son of Hinnom, <em>and</em> which <em>is</em> in the valley of the giants on the north, and descended to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of Jebusi on the south, and descended to Enrogel, <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And was drawn from the north, and went forth to Enshemesh, and went forth toward Geliloth, which <em>is</em> over against the going up of Adummim, and descended to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben, <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And passed along toward the side over against Arabah northward, and went down unto Arabah: <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the border passed along to the side of Bethhoglah northward: and the outgoings of the border were at the north bay of the salt sea at the south end of Jordan: this <em>was</em> the south coast. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Jordan was the border of it on the east side. This <em>was</em> the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, by the coasts thereof round about, according to their families. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho, and Bethhoglah, and the valley of Keziz, <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Betharabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel, <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Avim, and Parah, and Ophrah, <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Chepharhaammonai, and Ophni, and Gaba; twelve cities with their villages: <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth, <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah, <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah, <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Zelah, Eleph, and Jebusi, which <em>is</em> Jerusalem, Gibeath, <em>and</em> Kirjath; fourteen cities with their villages. This <em>is</em> the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.

</body>
</html>