<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Joshua was old <em>and</em> stricken in years; and the LORD said unto him, Thou art old <em>and</em> stricken in years, and there remaineth yet very much land to be possessed. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> This <em>is</em> the land that yet remaineth: all the borders of the Philistines, and all Geshuri, <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> From Sihor, which <em>is</em> before Egypt, even unto the borders of Ekron northward, <em>which</em> is counted to the Canaanite: five lords of the Philistines; the Gazathites, and the Ashdothites, the Eshkalonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites; also the Avites: <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> From the south, all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah that <em>is</em> beside the Sidonians, unto Aphek, to the borders of the Amorites: <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the land of the Giblites, and all Lebanon, toward the sunrising, from Baalgad under mount Hermon unto the entering into Hamath. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon unto Misrephothmaim, <em>and</em> all the Sidonians, them will I drive out from before the children of Israel: only divide thou it by lot unto the Israelites for an inheritance, as I have commanded thee. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance unto the nine tribes, and the half tribe of Manasseh, <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> With whom the Reubenites and the Gadites have received their inheritance, which Moses gave them, beyond Jordan eastward, <em>even</em> as Moses the servant of the LORD gave them; <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From Aroer, that <em>is</em> upon the bank of the river Arnon, and the city that <em>is</em> in the midst of the river, and all the plain of Medeba unto Dibon; <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, unto the border of the children of Ammon; <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites and Maachathites, and all mount Hermon, and all Bashan unto Salcah; <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All the kingdom of Og in Bashan, which reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei, who remained of the remnant of the giants: for these did Moses smite, and cast them out. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Nevertheless the children of Israel expelled not the Geshurites, nor the Maachathites: but the Geshurites and the Maachathites dwell among the Israelites until this day. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Only unto the tribe of Levi he gave none inheritance; the sacrifices of the LORD God of Israel made by fire <em>are</em> their inheritance, as he said unto them. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Moses gave unto the tribe of the children of Reuben <em>inheritance</em> according to their families. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And their coast was from Aroer, that <em>is</em> on the bank of the river Arnon, and the city that <em>is</em> in the midst of the river, and all the plain by Medeba; <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Heshbon, and all her cities that <em>are</em> in the plain; Dibon, and Bamothbaal, and Bethbaalmeon, <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jahazah, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath, <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Kirjathaim, and Sibmah, and Zarethshahar in the mount of the valley, <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Bethpeor, and Ashdothpisgah, and Bethjeshimoth, <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses smote with the princes of Midian, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, <em>which were</em> dukes of Sihon, dwelling in the country. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Balaam also the son of Beor, the soothsayer, did the children of Israel slay with the sword among them that were slain by them. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the border of the children of Reuben was Jordan, and the border <em>thereof</em>. This <em>was</em> the inheritance of the children of Reuben after their families, the cities and the villages thereof. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Moses gave <em>inheritance</em> unto the tribe of Gad, <em>even</em> unto the children of Gad according to their families. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And their coast was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the children of Ammon, unto Aroer that <em>is</em> before Rabbah; <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And from Heshbon unto Ramathmizpeh, and Betonim; and from Mahanaim unto the border of Debir; <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And in the valley, Betharam, and Bethnimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon, Jordan and <em>his</em> border, <em>even</em> unto the edge of the sea of Chinnereth on the other side Jordan eastward. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> This <em>is</em> the inheritance of the children of Gad after their families, the cities, and their villages. <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Moses gave <em>inheritance</em> unto the half tribe of Manasseh: and <em>this</em> was <em>the possession</em> of the half tribe of the children of Manasseh by their families. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And their coast was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which <em>are</em> in Bashan, threescore cities: <a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And half Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, <em>were pertaining</em> unto the children of Machir the son of Manasseh, <em>even</em> to the one half of the children of Machir by their families. <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These <em>are the countries</em> which Moses did distribute for inheritance in the plains of Moab, on the other side Jordan, by Jericho, eastward. <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But unto the tribe of Levi Moses gave not <em>any</em> inheritance: the LORD God of Israel <em>was</em> their inheritance, as he said unto them.

</body>
</html>