<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 14</h2>

<a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And these <em>are the countries</em> which the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed for inheritance to them. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> By lot <em>was</em> their inheritance, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses, for the nine tribes, and <em>for</em> the half tribe. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Moses had given the inheritance of two tribes and an half tribe on the other side Jordan: but unto the Levites he gave none inheritance among them. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim: therefore they gave no part unto the Levites in the land, save cities to dwell <em>in</em>, with their suburbs for their cattle and for their substance. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As the LORD commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did, and they divided the land. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then the children of Judah came unto Joshua in Gilgal: and Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite said unto him, Thou knowest the thing that the LORD said unto Moses the man of God concerning me and thee in Kadeshbarnea. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Forty years old <em>was</em> I when Moses the servant of the LORD sent me from Kadeshbarnea to espy out the land; and I brought him word again as <em>it was</em> in mine heart. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Nevertheless my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people melt: but I wholly followed the LORD my God. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Moses sware on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance, and thy children's for ever, because thou hast wholly followed the LORD my God. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And now, behold, the LORD hath kept me alive, as he said, these forty and five years, even since the LORD spake this word unto Moses, while <em>the children of</em> Israel wandered in the wilderness: and now, lo, I <em>am</em> this day fourscore and five years old. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As yet I <em>am as</em> strong this day as <em>I was</em> in the day that Moses sent me: as my strength <em>was</em> then, even so <em>is</em> my strength now, for war, both to go out, and to come in. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now therefore give me this mountain, whereof the LORD spake in that day; for thou heardest in that day how the Anakims <em>were</em> there, and <em>that</em> the cities <em>were</em> great <em>and</em> fenced: if so be the LORD <em>will be</em> with me, then I shall be able to drive them out, as the LORD said. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Joshua blessed him, and gave unto Caleb the son of Jephunneh Hebron for an inheritance. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite unto this day, because that he wholly followed the LORD God of Israel. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the name of Hebron before <em>was</em> Kirjatharba; <em>which Arba was</em> a great man among the Anakims. And the land had rest from war.

</body>
</html>