<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 19</h2>

<a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the second lot came forth to Simeon, <em>even</em> for the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families: and their inheritance was within the inheritance of the children of Judah. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they had in their inheritance Beersheba, or Sheba, and Moladah, <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Hazarshual, and Balah, and Azem, <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah, <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Ziklag, and Bethmarcaboth, and Hazarsusah, <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Bethlebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities and their villages: <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ain, Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan; four cities and their villages: <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And all the villages that <em>were</em> round about these cities to Baalathbeer, Ramath of the south. This <em>is</em> the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Out of the portion of the children of Judah <em>was</em> the inheritance of the children of Simeon: for the part of the children of Judah was too much for them: therefore the children of Simeon had their inheritance within the inheritance of them. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the third lot came up for the children of Zebulun according to their families: and the border of their inheritance was unto Sarid: <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And their border went up toward the sea, and Maralah, and reached to Dabbasheth, and reached to the river that <em>is</em> before Jokneam; <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And turned from Sarid eastward toward the sunrising unto the border of Chislothtabor, and then goeth out to Daberath, and goeth up to Japhia, <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And from thence passeth on along on the east to Gittahhepher, to Ittahkazin, and goeth out to Remmonmethoar to Neah; <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the border compasseth it on the north side to Hannathon: and the outgoings thereof are in the valley of Jiphthahel: <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Kattath, and Nahallal, and Shimron, and Idalah, and Bethlehem: twelve cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> This <em>is</em> the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according to their families, these cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> <em>And</em> the fourth lot came out to Issachar, for the children of Issachar according to their families. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And their border was toward Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem, <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Hapharaim, and Shion, and Anaharath, <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Rabbith, and Kishion, and Abez, <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Remeth, and Engannim, and Enhaddah, and Bethpazzez; <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the coast reacheth to Tabor, and Shahazimah, and Bethshemesh; and the outgoings of their border were at Jordan: sixteen cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This <em>is</em> the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families, the cities and their villages. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the fifth lot came out for the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And their border was Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph, <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Alammelech, and Amad, and Misheal; and reacheth to Carmel westward, and to Shihorlibnath; <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And turneth toward the sunrising to Bethdagon, and reacheth to Zebulun, and to the valley of Jiphthahel toward the north side of Bethemek, and Neiel, and goeth out to Cabul on the left hand, <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Hebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah, <em>even</em> unto great Zidon; <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And <em>then</em> the coast turneth to Ramah, and to the strong city Tyre; and the coast turneth to Hosah; and the outgoings thereof are at the sea from the coast to Achzib: <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Ummah also, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty and two cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> This <em>is</em> the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families, these cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The sixth lot came out to the children of Naphtali, <em>even</em> for the children of Naphtali according to their families. <a id="c19_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And their coast was from Heleph, from Allon to Zaanannim, and Adami, Nekeb, and Jabneel, unto Lakum; and the outgoings thereof were at Jordan: <a id="c19_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And <em>then</em> the coast turneth westward to Aznothtabor, and goeth out from thence to Hukkok, and reacheth to Zebulun on the south side, and reacheth to Asher on the west side, and to Judah upon Jordan toward the sunrising. <a id="c19_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the fenced cities <em>are</em> Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, Rakkath, and Chinnereth, <a id="c19_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Adamah, and Ramah, and Hazor, <a id="c19_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Kedesh, and Edrei, and Enhazor, <a id="c19_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Iron, and Migdalel, Horem, and Bethanath, and Bethshemesh; nineteen cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> This <em>is</em> the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali according to their families, the cities and their villages. <a id="c19_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> <em>And</em> the seventh lot came out for the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families. <a id="c19_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And the coast of their inheritance was Zorah, and Eshtaol, and Irshemesh, <a id="c19_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Shaalabbin, and Ajalon, and Jethlah, <a id="c19_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Elon, and Thimnathah, and Ekron, <a id="c19_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Eltekeh, and Gibbethon, and Baalath, <a id="c19_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And Jehud, and Beneberak, and Gathrimmon, <a id="c19_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Mejarkon, and Rakkon, with the border before Japho. <a id="c19_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And the coast of the children of Dan went out <em>too little</em> for them: therefore the children of Dan went up to fight against Leshem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and possessed it, and dwelt therein, and called Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dan their father. <a id="c19_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> This <em>is</em> the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families, these cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> When they had made an end of dividing the land for inheritance by their coasts, the children of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Nun among them: <a id="c19_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> According to the word of the LORD they gave him the city which he asked, <em>even</em> Timnathserah in mount Ephraim: and he built the city, and dwelt therein. <a id="c19_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> These <em>are</em> the inheritances, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel, divided for an inheritance by lot in Shiloh before the LORD, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. So they made an end of dividing the country.

</body>
</html>