<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then sang Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam on that day, saying, <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Praise ye the LORD for the avenging of Israel, when the people willingly offered themselves. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, <em>even</em> I, will sing unto the LORD; I will sing <em>praise</em> to the LORD God of Israel. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> LORD, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou marchedst out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, the clouds also dropped water. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The mountains melted from before the LORD, <em>even</em> that Sinai from before the LORD God of Israel. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied, and the travellers walked through byways. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>The inhabitants of</em> the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They chose new gods; then <em>was</em> war in the gates: was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel? <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My heart <em>is</em> toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye the LORD. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Speak, ye that ride on white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walk by the way. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>They that are delivered</em> from the noise of archers in the places of drawing water, there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of the LORD, <em>even</em> the righteous acts <em>toward the inhabitants</em> of his villages in Israel: then shall the people of the LORD go down to the gates. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, utter a song: arise, Barak, and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then he made him that remaineth have dominion over the nobles among the people: the LORD made me have dominion over the mighty. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Out of Ephraim <em>was there</em> a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the princes of Issachar <em>were</em> with Deborah; even Issachar, and also Barak: he was sent on foot into the valley. For the divisions of Reuben <em>there were</em> great thoughts of heart. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the bleatings of the flocks? For the divisions of Reuben <em>there were</em> great searchings of heart. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Gilead abode beyond Jordan: and why did Dan remain in ships? Asher continued on the sea shore, and abode in his breaches. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Zebulun and Naphtali <em>were</em> a people <em>that</em> jeoparded their lives unto the death in the high places of the field. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The kings came <em>and</em> fought, then fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no gain of money. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The river of Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then were the horsehoofs broken by the means of the pransings, the pransings of their mighty ones. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Curse ye Meroz, said the angel of the LORD, curse ye bitterly the inhabitants thereof; because they came not to the help of the LORD, to the help of the LORD against the mighty. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite be, blessed shall she be above women in the tent. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He asked water, <em>and</em> she gave <em>him</em> milk; she brought forth butter in a lordly dish. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> She put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer; and with the hammer she smote Sisera, she smote off his head, when she had pierced and stricken through his temples. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down: at her feet he bowed, he fell: where he bowed, there he fell down dead. <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot <em>so</em> long in coming? why tarry the wheels of his chariots? <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Her wise ladies answered her, yea, she returned answer to herself, <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Have they not sped? have they <em>not</em> divided the prey; to every man a damsel <em>or</em> two; to Sisera a prey of divers colours, a prey of divers colours of needlework, of divers colours of needlework on both sides, <em>meet</em> for the necks of <em>them that take</em> the spoil? <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So let all thine enemies perish, O LORD: but <em>let</em> them that love him <em>be</em> as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. And the land had rest forty years.

</body>
</html>