<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 10</h2>

<a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after Abimelech there arose to defend Israel Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in Shamir in mount Ephraim. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and was buried in Shamir. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And after him arose Jair, a Gileadite, and judged Israel twenty and two years. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he had thirty sons that rode on thirty ass colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havothjair unto this day, which <em>are</em> in the land of Gilead. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jair died, and was buried in Camon. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the LORD, and served Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook the LORD, and served not him. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the children of Ammon. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And that year they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel: eighteen years, all the children of Israel that <em>were</em> on the other side Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which <em>is</em> in Gilead. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Moreover the children of Ammon passed over Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; so that Israel was sore distressed. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and also served Baalim. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the LORD said unto the children of Israel, <em>Did</em> not <em>I deliver you</em> from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines? <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The Zidonians also, and the Amalekites, and the Maonites, did oppress you; and ye cried to me, and I delivered you out of their hand. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods: wherefore I will deliver you no more. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of your tribulation. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the children of Israel said unto the LORD, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee; deliver us only, we pray thee, this day. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they put away the strange gods from among them, and served the LORD: and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpeh. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the people <em>and</em> princes of Gilead said one to another, What man <em>is he</em> that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.

</body>
</html>