<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest to fight with the Midianites? And they did chide with him sharply. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison of you? <em>Is</em> not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer? <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God hath delivered into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison of you? Then their anger was abated toward him, when he had said that. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Gideon came to Jordan, <em>and</em> passed over, he, and the three hundred men that <em>were</em> with him, faint, yet pursuing <em>them</em>. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, loaves of bread unto the people that follow me; for they <em>be</em> faint, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the princes of Succoth said, <em>Are</em> the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thine army? <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Gideon said, Therefore when the LORD hath delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into mine hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them likewise: and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered <em>him</em>. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he spake also unto the men of Penuel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now Zebah and Zalmunna <em>were</em> in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand <em>men</em>, all that were left of all the hosts of the children of the east: for there fell an hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the host: for the host was secure. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when Zebah and Zalmunna fled, he pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Gideon the son of Joash returned from battle before the sun <em>was up</em>, <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And caught a young man of the men of Succoth, and enquired of him: and he described unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, <em>even</em> threescore and seventeen men. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, <em>Are</em> the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thy men <em>that are</em> weary? <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men <em>were they</em> whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou <em>art</em>, so <em>were</em> they; each one resembled the children of a king. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said, They <em>were</em> my brethren, <em>even</em> the sons of my mother: <em>as</em> the LORD liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay you. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said unto Jether his firstborn, Up, <em>and</em> slay them. But the youth drew not his sword: for he feared, because he <em>was</em> yet a youth. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall upon us: for as the man <em>is, so is</em> his strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna, and took away the ornaments that <em>were</em> on their camels' necks. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Gideon said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: the LORD shall rule over you. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Gideon said unto them, I would desire a request of you, that ye would give me every man the earrings of his prey. (For they had golden earrings, because they <em>were</em> Ishmaelites.) <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they answered, We will willingly give <em>them</em>. And they spread a garment, and did cast therein every man the earrings of his prey. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred <em>shekels</em> of gold; beside ornaments, and collars, and purple raiment that <em>was</em> on the kings of Midian, and beside the chains that <em>were</em> about their camels' necks. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Gideon made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city, <em>even</em> in Ophrah: and all Israel went thither a whoring after it: which thing became a snare unto Gideon, and to his house. <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thus was Midian subdued before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more. And the country was in quietness forty years in the days of Gideon. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Gideon had threescore and ten sons of his body begotten: for he had many wives. <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And his concubine that <em>was</em> in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the Abiezrites. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And it came to pass, as soon as Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and went a whoring after Baalim, and made Baalberith their god. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the children of Israel remembered not the LORD their God, who had delivered them out of the hands of all their enemies on every side: <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Neither shewed they kindness to the house of Jerubbaal, <em>namely</em>, Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had shewed unto Israel.

</body>
</html>