<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these <em>are</em> the nations which the LORD left, to prove Israel by them, <em>even</em> as many <em>of Israel</em> as had not known all the wars of Canaan; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing thereof; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> <em>Namely</em>, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baalhermon unto the entering in of Hamath. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of the LORD, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, Hittites, and Amorites, and Perizzites, and Hivites, and Jebusites: <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the LORD, and forgat the LORD their God, and served Baalim and the groves. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Chushanrishathaim eight years. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, the LORD raised up a deliverer to the children of Israel, who delivered them, <em>even</em> Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he judged Israel, and went out to war: and the LORD delivered Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Chushanrishathaim. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the LORD: and the LORD strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of the LORD. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm trees. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But when the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, the LORD raised them up a deliverer, Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a man lefthanded: and by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon the king of Moab. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Ehud made him a dagger which had two edges, of a cubit length; and he did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he brought the present unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon <em>was</em> a very fat man. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the people that bare the present. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But he himself turned again from the quarries that <em>were</em> by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king: who said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting in a summer parlour, which he had for himself alone. And Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee. And he arose out of <em>his</em> seat. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly: <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, so that he could not draw the dagger out of his belly; and the dirt came out. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then Ehud went forth through the porch, and shut the doors of the parlour upon him, and locked them. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the parlour <em>were</em> locked, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they tarried till they were ashamed: and, behold, he opened not the doors of the parlour; therefore they took a key, and opened <em>them</em>: and, behold, their lord <em>was</em> fallen down dead on the earth. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Ehud escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond the quarries, and escaped unto Seirath. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the mountain of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount, and he before them. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said unto them, Follow after me: for the LORD hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not a man to pass over. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all lusty, and all men of valour; and there escaped not a man. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, which slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox goad: and he also delivered Israel.

</body>
</html>