<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But it came to pass within a while after, in the time of wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber. But her father would not suffer him to go in. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And her father said, I verily thought that thou hadst utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to thy companion: <em>is</em> not her younger sister fairer than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Samson said concerning them, Now shall I be more blameless than the Philistines, though I do them a displeasure. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took firebrands, and turned tail to tail, and put a firebrand in the midst between two tails. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he had set the brands on fire, he let <em>them</em> go into the standing corn of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks, and also the standing corn, with the vineyards <em>and</em> olives. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Samson, the son in law of the Timnite, because he had taken his wife, and given her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Samson said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and after that I will cease. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down and dwelt in the top of the rock Etam. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then the Philistines went up, and pitched in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they answered, To bind Samson are we come up, to do to him as he hath done to us. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock Etam, and said to Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines <em>are</em> rulers over us? what <em>is</em> this <em>that</em> thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye will not fall upon me yourselves. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they spake unto him, saying, No; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand: but surely we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two new cords, and brought him up from the rock. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> <em>And</em> when he came unto Lehi, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon him, and the cords that <em>were</em> upon his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he found a new jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Samson said, With the jawbone of an ass, heaps upon heaps, with the jaw of an ass have I slain a thousand men. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand, and called that place Ramathlehi. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he was sore athirst, and called on the LORD, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised? <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But God clave an hollow place that <em>was</em> in the jaw, and there came water thereout; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof Enhakkore, which <em>is</em> in Lehi unto this day. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.

</body>
</html>