<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 17</h2>

<a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name <em>was</em> Micah. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred <em>shekels</em> of silver that were taken from thee, about which thou cursedst, and spakest of also in mine ears, behold, the silver <em>is</em> with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed <em>be thou</em> of the LORD, my son. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when he had restored the eleven hundred <em>shekels</em> of silver to his mother, his mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver unto the LORD from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it unto thee. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother took two hundred <em>shekels</em> of silver, and gave them to the founder, who made thereof a graven image and a molten image: and they were in the house of Micah. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the man Micah had an house of gods, and made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In those days <em>there was</em> no king in Israel, <em>but</em> every man did <em>that which was</em> right in his own eyes. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And there was a young man out of Bethlehemjudah of the family of Judah, who <em>was</em> a Levite, and he sojourned there. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the man departed out of the city from Bethlehemjudah to sojourn where he could find <em>a place</em>: and he came to mount Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he journeyed. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I <em>am</em> a Levite of Bethlehemjudah, and I go to sojourn where I may find <em>a place</em>. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten <em>shekels</em> of silver by the year, and a suit of apparel, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Micah consecrated the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then said Micah, Now know I that the LORD will do me good, seeing I have a Levite to <em>my</em> priest.

</body>
</html>