<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 12</h2>

<a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went northward, and said unto Jephthah, Wherefore passedst thou over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thine house upon thee with fire. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jephthah said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hands. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when I saw that ye delivered <em>me</em> not, I put my life in my hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and the LORD delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day, to fight against me? <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Gileadites <em>are</em> fugitives of Ephraim among the Ephraimites, <em>and</em> among the Manassites. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Gileadites took the passages of Jordan before the Ephraimites: and it was <em>so</em>, that when those Ephraimites which were escaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, <em>Art</em> thou an Ephraimite? If he said, Nay; <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then said they unto him, Say now Shibboleth: and he said Sibboleth: for he could not frame to pronounce <em>it</em> right. Then they took him, and slew him at the passages of Jordan: and there fell at that time of the Ephraimites forty and two thousand. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then died Jephthah the Gileadite, and was buried in <em>one of</em> the cities of Gilead. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And after him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, <em>whom</em> he sent abroad, and took in thirty daughters from abroad for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then died Ibzan, and was buried at Bethlehem. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And after him Elon, a Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the country of Zebulun. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And after him Abdon the son of Hillel, a Pirathonite, judged Israel. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he had forty sons and thirty nephews, that rode on threescore and ten ass colts: and he judged Israel eight years. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.

</body>
</html>