<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ruth 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ruth 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehemjudah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the name of the man <em>was</em> Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites of Bethlehemjudah. And they came into the country of Moab, and continued there. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Elimelech Naomi's husband died; and she was left, and her two sons. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the one <em>was</em> Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they dwelled there about ten years. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Mahlon and Chilion died also both of them; and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then she arose with her daughters in law, that she might return from the country of Moab: for she had heard in the country of Moab how that the LORD had visited his people in giving them bread. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she was, and her two daughters in law with her; and they went on the way to return unto the land of Judah. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Naomi said unto her two daughters in law, Go, return each to her mother's house: the LORD deal kindly with you, as ye have dealt with the dead, and with me. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The LORD grant you that ye may find rest, each <em>of you</em> in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them; and they lifted up their voice, and wept. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they said unto her, Surely we will return with thee unto thy people. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will ye go with me? <em>are</em> there yet <em>any more</em> sons in my womb, that they may be your husbands? <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Turn again, my daughters, go <em>your way</em>; for I am too old to have an husband. If I should say, I have hope, <em>if</em> I should have an husband also to night, and should also bear sons; <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Would ye tarry for them till they were grown? would ye stay for them from having husbands? nay, my daughters; for it grieveth me much for your sakes that the hand of the LORD is gone out against me. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed her mother in law; but Ruth clave unto her. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And she said, Behold, thy sister in law is gone back unto her people, and unto her gods: return thou after thy sister in law. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Ruth said, Intreat me not to leave thee, <em>or</em> to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people <em>shall be</em> my people, and thy God my God: <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: the LORD do so to me, and more also, <em>if ought</em> but death part thee and me. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her, then she left speaking unto her. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So they two went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came to pass, when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city was moved about them, and they said, <em>Is</em> this Naomi? <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And she said unto them, Call me not Naomi, call me Mara: for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I went out full, and the LORD hath brought me home again empty: why <em>then</em> call ye me Naomi, seeing the LORD hath testified against me, and the Almighty hath afflicted me? <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter in law, with her, which returned out of the country of Moab: and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest.

</body>
</html>