<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the name of his firstborn was Joel; and the name of his second, Abiah: <em>they were</em> judges in Beersheba. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah, <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the LORD. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the LORD said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them, and shew them the manner of the king that shall reign over them. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Samuel told all the words of the LORD unto the people that asked of him a king. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: He will take your sons, and appoint <em>them</em> for himself, for his chariots, and <em>to be</em> his horsemen; and <em>some</em> shall run before his chariots. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he will appoint him captains over thousands, and captains over fifties; and <em>will set them</em> to ear his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and instruments of his chariots. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he will take your daughters <em>to be</em> confectionaries, and <em>to be</em> cooks, and <em>to be</em> bakers. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards, <em>even</em> the best <em>of them</em>, and give <em>them</em> to his servants. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he will take your menservants, and your maidservants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put <em>them</em> to his work. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He will take the tenth of your sheep: and ye shall be his servants. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king which ye shall have chosen you; and the LORD will not hear you in that day. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us; <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> That we also may be like all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of the LORD. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the LORD said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.

</body>
</html>