<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the child Samuel ministered unto the LORD before Eli. And the word of the LORD was precious in those days; <em>there was</em> no open vision. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass at that time, when Eli <em>was</em> laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim, <em>that</em> he could not see; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the LORD, where the ark of God <em>was</em>, and Samuel was laid down <em>to sleep</em>; <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That the LORD called Samuel: and he answered, Here <em>am</em> I. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here <em>am</em> I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the LORD called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here <em>am</em> I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD, neither was the word of the LORD yet revealed unto him. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the LORD called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here <em>am</em> I; for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that the LORD had called the child. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, LORD; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the LORD came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak; for thy servant heareth. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the LORD said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In that day I will perform against Eli all <em>things</em> which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offering for ever. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of the LORD. And Samuel feared to shew Eli the vision. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here <em>am</em> I. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said, What <em>is</em> the thing that <em>the LORD</em> hath said unto thee? I pray thee hide <em>it</em> not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide <em>any</em> thing from me of all the things that he said unto thee. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It <em>is</em> the LORD: let him do what seemeth him good. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Samuel grew, and the LORD was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel <em>was</em> established <em>to be</em> a prophet of the LORD. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the LORD appeared again in Shiloh: for the LORD revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the LORD.

</body>
</html>