<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name <em>was</em> Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, a Benjamite, a mighty man of power. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he had a son, whose name <em>was</em> Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly: and <em>there was</em> not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he: from his shoulders and upward <em>he was</em> higher than any of the people. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go seek the asses. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalisha, but they found <em>them</em> not: then they passed through the land of Shalim, and <em>there they were</em> not: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they found <em>them</em> not. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>And</em> when they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant that <em>was</em> with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father leave <em>caring</em> for the asses, and take thought for us. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said unto him, Behold now, <em>there is</em> in this city a man of God, and <em>he is</em> an honourable man; all that he saith cometh surely to pass: now let us go thither; peradventure he can shew us our way that we should go. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said Saul to his servant, But, behold, <em>if</em> we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and <em>there is</em> not a present to bring to the man of God: what have we? <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: <em>that</em> will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (Beforetime in Israel, when a man went to enquire of God, thus he spake, Come, and let us go to the seer: for <em>he that is</em> now <em>called</em> a Prophet was beforetime called a Seer.) <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then said Saul to his servant, Well said; come, let us go. So they went unto the city where the man of God <em>was</em>. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>And</em> as they went up the hill to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here? <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, <em>he is</em> before you: make haste now, for he came to day to the city; for <em>there is</em> a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place: <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As soon as ye be come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people will not eat until he come, because he doth bless the sacrifice; <em>and</em> afterwards they eat that be bidden. Now therefore get you up; for about this time ye shall find him. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they went up into the city: <em>and</em> when they were come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, for to go up to the high place. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now the LORD had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came, saying, <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him <em>to be</em> captain over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when Samuel saw Saul, the LORD said unto him, Behold the man whom I spake to thee of! this same shall reign over my people. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer's house <em>is</em>. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I <em>am</em> the seer: go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me to day, and to morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that <em>is</em> in thine heart. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And as for thine asses that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind on them; for they are found. And on whom <em>is</em> all the desire of Israel? <em>Is it</em> not on thee, and on all thy father's house? <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Saul answered and said, <em>Am</em> not I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou so to me? <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the parlour, and made them sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden, which <em>were</em> about thirty persons. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Samuel said unto the cook, Bring the portion which I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, Set it by thee. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the cook took up the shoulder, and <em>that</em> which <em>was</em> upon it, and set <em>it</em> before Saul. And <em>Samuel</em> said, Behold that which is left! set <em>it</em> before thee, <em>and</em> eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for thee since I said, I have invited the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when they were come down from the high place into the city, <em>Samuel</em> communed with Saul upon the top of the house. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they arose early: and it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Up, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, abroad. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> <em>And</em> as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Bid the servant pass on before us, (and he passed on,) but stand thou still a while, that I may shew thee the word of God.

</body>
</html>