<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the ark of the LORD was in the country of the Philistines seven months. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do to the ark of the LORD? tell us wherewith we shall send it to his place. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not removed from you. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then said they, What <em>shall be</em> the trespass offering which we shall return to him? They answered, Five golden emerods, and five golden mice, <em>according to</em> the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague <em>was</em> on you all, and on your lords. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wherefore ye shall make images of your emerods, and images of your mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off your land. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherefore then do ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed? <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now therefore make a new cart, and take two milch kine, on which there hath come no yoke, and tie the kine to the cart, and bring their calves home from them: <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And take the ark of the LORD, and lay it upon the cart; and put the jewels of gold, which ye return him <em>for</em> a trespass offering, in a coffer by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And see, if it goeth up by the way of his own coast to Bethshemesh, <em>then</em> he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know that <em>it is</em> not his hand <em>that</em> smote us: it <em>was</em> a chance <em>that</em> happened to us. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the men did so; and took two milch kine, and tied them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home: <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they laid the ark of the LORD upon the cart, and the coffer with the mice of gold and the images of their emerods. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the kine took the straight way to the way of Bethshemesh, <em>and</em> went along the highway, lowing as they went, and turned not aside <em>to</em> the right hand or <em>to</em> the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Bethshemesh. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And <em>they of</em> Bethshemesh <em>were</em> reaping their wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see <em>it</em>. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Bethshemite, and stood there, where <em>there was</em> a great stone: and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the kine a burnt offering unto the LORD. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the Levites took down the ark of the LORD, and the coffer that <em>was</em> with it, wherein the jewels of gold <em>were</em>, and put <em>them</em> on the great stone: and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto the LORD. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen <em>it</em>, they returned to Ekron the same day. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And these <em>are</em> the golden emerods which the Philistines returned <em>for</em> a trespass offering unto the LORD; for Ashdod one, for Gaza one, for Askelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one; <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the golden mice, <em>according to</em> the number of all the cities of the Philistines <em>belonging</em> to the five lords, <em>both</em> of fenced cities, and of country villages, even unto the great <em>stone of</em> Abel, whereon they set down the ark of the LORD: <em>which stone remaineth</em> unto this day in the field of Joshua, the Bethshemite. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he smote the men of Bethshemesh, because they had looked into the ark of the LORD, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and ten men: and the people lamented, because the LORD had smitten <em>many</em> of the people with a great slaughter. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy LORD God? and to whom shall he go up from us? <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjathjearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of the LORD; come ye down, <em>and</em> fetch it up to you.

</body>
</html>