<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, when the king sat in his house, and the LORD had given him rest round about from all his enemies; <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> That the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in an house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that <em>is</em> in thine heart; for the LORD <em>is</em> with thee. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it came to pass that night, that the word of the LORD came unto Nathan, saying, <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Go and tell my servant David, Thus saith the LORD, Shalt thou build me an house for me to dwell in? <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whereas I have not dwelt in <em>any</em> house since the time that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In all <em>the places</em> wherein I have walked with all the children of Israel spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why build ye not me an house of cedar? <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now therefore so shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, to be ruler over my people, over Israel: <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all thine enemies out of thy sight, and have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great <em>men</em> that <em>are</em> in the earth. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Moreover I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as beforetime, <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And as since the time that I commanded judges <em>to be</em> over my people Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies. Also the LORD telleth thee that he will make thee an house. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He shall build an house for my name, and I will stablish the throne of his kingdom for ever. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men: <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But my mercy shall not depart away from him, as I took <em>it</em> from Saul, whom I put away before thee. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thine house and thy kingdom shall be established for ever before thee: thy throne shall be established for ever. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then went king David in, and sat before the LORD, and he said, Who <em>am</em> I, O Lord GOD? and what <em>is</em> my house, that thou hast brought me hitherto? <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord GOD; but thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come. And <em>is</em> this the manner of man, O Lord GOD? <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And what can David say more unto thee? for thou, Lord GOD, knowest thy servant. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For thy word's sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou done all these great things, to make thy servant know <em>them</em>. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wherefore thou art great, O LORD God: for <em>there is</em> none like thee, neither <em>is there any</em> God beside thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And what one nation in the earth <em>is</em> like thy people, <em>even</em> like Israel, whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, and to make him a name, and to do for you great things and terrible, for thy land, before thy people, which thou redeemedst to thee from Egypt, <em>from</em> the nations and their gods? <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For thou hast confirmed to thyself thy people Israel <em>to be</em> a people unto thee for ever: and thou, LORD, art become their God. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And now, O LORD God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, establish <em>it</em> for ever, and do as thou hast said. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And let thy name be magnified for ever, saying, The LORD of hosts <em>is</em> the God over Israel: and let the house of thy servant David be established before thee. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For thou, O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, hast revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee an house: therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer unto thee. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And now, O Lord GOD, thou <em>art</em> that God, and thy words be true, and thou hast promised this goodness unto thy servant: <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Therefore now let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee: for thou, O Lord GOD, hast spoken <em>it</em>: and with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for ever.

</body>
</html>