<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Ziklag; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It came even to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head: and <em>so</em> it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and did obeisance. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And David said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And David said unto him, How went the matter? I pray thee, tell me. And he answered, That the people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan his son be dead? <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the young man that told him said, As I happened by chance upon mount Gilboa, behold, Saul leaned upon his spear; and, lo, the chariots and horsemen followed hard after him. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when he looked behind him, he saw me, and called unto me. And I answered, Here <em>am</em> I. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said unto me, Who <em>art</em> thou? And I answered him, I <em>am</em> an Amalekite. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He said unto me again, Stand, I pray thee, upon me, and slay me: for anguish is come upon me, because my life <em>is</em> yet whole in me. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So I stood upon him, and slew him, because I was sure that he could not live after that he was fallen: and I took the crown that <em>was</em> upon his head, and the bracelet that <em>was</em> on his arm, and have brought them hither unto my lord. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then David took hold on his clothes, and rent them; and likewise all the men that <em>were</em> with him: <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they mourned, and wept, and fasted until even, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of the LORD, and for the house of Israel; because they were fallen by the sword. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And David said unto the young man that told him, Whence <em>art</em> thou? And he answered, I <em>am</em> the son of a stranger, an Amalekite. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And David said unto him, How wast thou not afraid to stretch forth thine hand to destroy the LORD'S anointed? <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And David called one of the young men, and said, Go near, <em>and</em> fall upon him. And he smote him that he died. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And David said unto him, Thy blood <em>be</em> upon thy head; for thy mouth hath testified against thee, saying, I have slain the LORD'S anointed. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son: <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (Also he bade them teach the children of Judah <em>the use of</em> the bow: behold, <em>it is</em> written in the book of Jasher.) <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places: how are the mighty fallen! <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Tell <em>it</em> not in Gath, publish <em>it</em> not in the streets of Askelon; lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Ye mountains of Gilboa, <em>let there be</em> no dew, neither <em>let there be</em> rain, upon you, nor fields of offerings: for there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, <em>as though he had</em> not <em>been</em> anointed with oil. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back, and the sword of Saul returned not empty. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Saul and Jonathan <em>were</em> lovely and pleasant in their lives, and in their death they were not divided: they were swifter than eagles, they were stronger than lions. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you in scarlet, with <em>other</em> delights, who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! O Jonathan, <em>thou wast</em> slain in thine high places. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan: very pleasant hast thou been unto me: thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished!

</body>
</html>