<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when Saul's son heard that Abner was dead in Hebron, his hands were feeble, and all the Israelites were troubled. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Saul's son had two men <em>that were</em> captains of bands: the name of the one <em>was</em> Baanah, and the name of the other Rechab, the sons of Rimmon a Beerothite, of the children of Benjamin: (for Beeroth also was reckoned to Benjamin: <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the Beerothites fled to Gittaim, and were sojourners there until this day.) <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jonathan, Saul's son, had a son <em>that was</em> lame of <em>his</em> feet. He was five years old when the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan out of Jezreel, and his nurse took him up, and fled: and it came to pass, as she made haste to flee, that he fell, and became lame. And his name <em>was</em> Mephibosheth. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went, and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ishbosheth, who lay on a bed at noon. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they came thither into the midst of the house, <em>as though</em> they would have fetched wheat; and they smote him under the fifth <em>rib</em>: and Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For when they came into the house, he lay on his bed in his bedchamber, and they smote him, and slew him, and beheaded him, and took his head, and gat them away through the plain all night. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they brought the head of Ishbosheth unto David to Hebron, and said to the king, Behold the head of Ishbosheth the son of Saul thine enemy, which sought thy life; and the LORD hath avenged my lord the king this day of Saul, and of his seed. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said unto them, <em>As</em> the LORD liveth, who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity, <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When one told me, saying, Behold, Saul is dead, thinking to have brought good tidings, I took hold of him, and slew him in Ziklag, who <em>thought</em> that I would have given him a reward for his tidings: <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> How much more, when wicked men have slain a righteous person in his own house upon his bed? shall I not therefore now require his blood of your hand, and take you away from the earth? <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And David commanded his young men, and they slew them, and cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged <em>them</em> up over the pool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ishbosheth, and buried <em>it</em> in the sepulchre of Abner in Hebron.

</body>
</html>