<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them: and David took Methegammah out of the hand of the Philistines. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he smote Moab, and measured them with a line, casting them down to the ground; even with two lines measured he to put to death, and with one full line to keep alive. And <em>so</em> the Moabites became David's servants, <em>and</em> brought gifts. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> David smote also Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his border at the river Euphrates. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And David took from him a thousand <em>chariots</em>, and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David houghed all the chariot <em>horses</em>, but reserved of them <em>for</em> an hundred chariots. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succour Hadadezer king of Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus: and the Syrians became servants to David, <em>and</em> brought gifts. And the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And from Betah, and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much brass. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer, <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Toi sent Joram his son unto king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer, and smitten him: for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. And <em>Joram</em> brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass: <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Which also king David did dedicate unto the LORD, with the silver and gold that he had dedicated of all nations which he subdued; <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And David gat <em>him</em> a name when he returned from smiting of the Syrians in the valley of salt, <em>being</em> eighteen thousand <em>men</em>. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all they of Edom became David's servants. And the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed judgment and justice unto all his people. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Joab the son of Zeruiah <em>was</em> over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud <em>was</em> recorder; <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, <em>were</em> the priests; and Seraiah <em>was</em> the scribe; <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada <em>was over</em> both the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were chief rulers.

</body>
</html>