<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 17</h2>

<a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Elijah the Tishbite, <em>who was</em> of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, <em>As</em> the LORD God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Cherith, that <em>is</em> before Jordan. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it shall be, <em>that</em> thou shalt drink of the brook; and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So he went and did according unto the word of the LORD: for he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith, that <em>is</em> before Jordan. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the brook. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it came to pass after a while, that the brook dried up, because there had been no rain in the land. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which <em>belongeth</em> to Zidon, and dwell there: behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman <em>was</em> there gathering of sticks: and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel, that I may drink. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And as she was going to fetch <em>it</em>, he called to her, and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And she said, <em>As</em> the LORD thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but an handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse: and, behold, I <em>am</em> gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it, and die. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Elijah said unto her, Fear not; go <em>and</em> do as thou hast said: but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring <em>it</em> unto me, and after make for thee and for thy son. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For thus saith the LORD God of Israel, The barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day <em>that</em> the LORD sendeth rain upon the earth. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she, and he, and her house, did eat <em>many</em> days. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> <em>And</em> the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of the LORD, which he spake by Elijah. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass after these things, <em>that</em> the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so sore, that there was no breath left in him. <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? art thou come unto me to call my sin to remembrance, and to slay my son? <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he took him out of her bosom, and carried him up into a loft, where he abode, and laid him upon his own bed. <a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, hast thou also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying her son? <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, I pray thee, let this child's soul come into him again. <a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the LORD heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived. <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mother: and Elijah said, See, thy son liveth. <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that thou <em>art</em> a man of God, <em>and</em> that the word of the LORD in thy mouth <em>is</em> truth.

</body>
</html>