<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam the son of Nebat reigned Abijam over Judah. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Three years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his mother's name <em>was</em> Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him: and his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as the heart of David his father. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Nevertheless for David's sake did the LORD his God give him a lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish Jerusalem: <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because David did <em>that which was</em> right in the eyes of the LORD, and turned not aside from any <em>thing</em> that he commanded him all the days of his life, save only in the matter of Uriah the Hittite. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now the rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, <em>are</em> they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Abijam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel reigned Asa over Judah. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And forty and one years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his mother's name <em>was</em> Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Asa did <em>that which was</em> right in the eyes of the LORD, as <em>did</em> David his father. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he took away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And also Maachah his mother, even her he removed from <em>being</em> queen, because she had made an idol in a grove; and Asa destroyed her idol, and burnt <em>it</em> by the brook Kidron. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But the high places were not removed: nevertheless Asa's heart was perfect with the LORD all his days. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he brought in the things which his father had dedicated, and the things which himself had dedicated, into the house of the LORD, silver, and gold, and vessels. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah, and built Ramah, that he might not suffer any to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Asa took all the silver and the gold <em>that were</em> left in the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king's house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants: and king Asa sent them to Benhadad, the son of Tabrimon, the son of Hezion, king of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying, <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> <em>There is</em> a league between me and thee, <em>and</em> between my father and thy father: behold, I have sent unto thee a present of silver and gold; come and break thy league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of the hosts which he had against the cities of Israel, and smote Ijon, and Dan, and Abelbethmaachah, and all Cinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And it came to pass, when Baasha heard <em>thereof</em>, that he left off building of Ramah, and dwelt in Tirzah. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then king Asa made a proclamation throughout all Judah; none <em>was</em> exempted: and they took away the stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha had builded; and king Asa built with them Geba of Benjamin, and Mizpah. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that he did, and the cities which he built, <em>are</em> they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? Nevertheless in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned over Israel two years. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him; and Baasha smote him at Gibbethon, which <em>belonged</em> to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel laid siege to Gibbethon. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Even in the third year of Asa king of Judah did Baasha slay him, and reigned in his stead. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it came to pass, when he reigned, <em>that</em> he smote all the house of Jeroboam; he left not to Jeroboam any that breathed, until he had destroyed him, according unto the saying of the LORD, which he spake by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite: <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Because of the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned, and which he made Israel sin, by his provocation wherewith he provoked the LORD God of Israel to anger. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Now the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, <em>are</em> they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> In the third year of Asa king of Judah began Baasha the son of Ahijah to reign over all Israel in Tirzah, twenty and four years. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.

</body>
</html>