<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 12</h2>

<a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for all Israel were come to Shechem to make him king. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was yet in Egypt, heard <em>of it</em>, (for he was fled from the presence of king Solomon, and Jeroboam dwelt in Egypt;) <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> That they sent and called him. And Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came, and spake unto Rehoboam, saying, <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy father made our yoke grievous: now therefore make thou the grievous service of thy father, and his heavy yoke which he put upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said unto them, Depart yet <em>for</em> three days, then come again to me. And the people departed. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men, that stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, and said, How do ye advise that I may answer this people? <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they spake unto him, saying, If thou wilt be a servant unto this people this day, and wilt serve them, and answer them, and speak good words to them, then they will be thy servants for ever. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But he forsook the counsel of the old men, which they had given him, and consulted with the young men that were grown up with him, <em>and</em> which stood before him: <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said unto them, What counsel give ye that we may answer this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke which thy father did put upon us lighter? <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou speak unto this people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou <em>it</em> lighter unto us; thus shalt thou say unto them, My little <em>finger</em> shall be thicker than my father's loins. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke: my father hath chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king had appointed, saying, Come to me again the third day. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the king answered the people roughly, and forsook the old men's counsel that they gave him; <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And spake to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, and I will add to your yoke: my father <em>also</em> chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Wherefore the king hearkened not unto the people; for the cause was from the LORD, that he might perform his saying, which the LORD spake by Ahijah the Shilonite unto Jeroboam the son of Nebat. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So when all Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David? neither <em>have we</em> inheritance in the son of Jesse: to your tents, O Israel: now see to thine own house, David. So Israel departed unto their tents. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But <em>as for</em> the children of Israel which dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then king Rehoboam sent Adoram, who <em>was</em> over the tribute; and all Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. Therefore king Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it came to pass, when all Israel heard that Jeroboam was come again, that they sent and called him unto the congregation, and made him king over all Israel: there was none that followed the house of David, but the tribe of Judah only. <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah, with the tribe of Benjamin, an hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men, which were warriors, to fight against the house of Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam the son of Solomon. <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the word of God came unto Shemaiah the man of God, saying, <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Speak unto Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and unto all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the remnant of the people, saying, <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thus saith the LORD, Ye shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren the children of Israel: return every man to his house; for this thing is from me. They hearkened therefore to the word of the LORD, and returned to depart, according to the word of the LORD. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then Jeroboam built Shechem in mount Ephraim, and dwelt therein; and went out from thence, and built Penuel. <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now shall the kingdom return to the house of David: <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If this people go up to do sacrifice in the house of the LORD at Jerusalem, then shall the heart of this people turn again unto their lord, <em>even</em> unto Rehoboam king of Judah, and they shall kill me, and go again to Rehoboam king of Judah. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Whereupon the king took counsel, and made two calves <em>of</em> gold, and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem: behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he set the one in Bethel, and the other put he in Dan. <a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And this thing became a sin: for the people went <em>to worship</em> before the one, <em>even</em> unto Dan. <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he made an house of high places, and made priests of the lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi. <a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, like unto the feast that <em>is</em> in Judah, and he offered upon the altar. So did he in Bethel, sacrificing unto the calves that he had made: and he placed in Bethel the priests of the high places which he had made. <a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> So he offered upon the altar which he had made in Bethel the fifteenth day of the eighth month, <em>even</em> in the month which he had devised of his own heart; and ordained a feast unto the children of Israel: and he offered upon the altar, and burnt incense.

</body>
</html>