<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So king Solomon was king over all Israel. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And these <em>were</em> the princes which he had; Azariah the son of Zadok the priest, <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Elihoreph and Ahiah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada <em>was</em> over the host: and Zadok and Abiathar <em>were</em> the priests: <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Azariah the son of Nathan <em>was</em> over the officers: and Zabud the son of Nathan <em>was</em> principal officer, <em>and</em> the king's friend: <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Ahishar <em>was</em> over the household: and Adoniram the son of Abda <em>was</em> over the tribute. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, which provided victuals for the king and his household: each man his month in a year made provision. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And these <em>are</em> their names: The son of Hur, in mount Ephraim: <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The son of Dekar, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Bethshemesh, and Elonbethhanan: <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The son of Hesed, in Aruboth; to him <em>pertained</em> Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher: <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The son of Abinadab, in all the region of Dor; which had Taphath the daughter of Solomon to wife: <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Baana the son of Ahilud; <em>to him pertained</em> Taanach and Megiddo, and all Bethshean, which <em>is</em> by Zartanah beneath Jezreel, from Bethshean to Abelmeholah, <em>even</em> unto <em>the place that is</em> beyond Jokneam: <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The son of Geber, in Ramothgilead; to him <em>pertained</em> the towns of Jair the son of Manasseh, which <em>are</em> in Gilead; to him <em>also pertained</em> the region of Argob, which <em>is</em> in Bashan, threescore great cities with walls and brasen bars: <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ahinadab the son of Iddo <em>had</em> Mahanaim: <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ahimaaz <em>was</em> in Naphtali; he also took Basmath the daughter of Solomon to wife: <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Baanah the son of Hushai <em>was</em> in Asher and in Aloth: <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar: <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Shimei the son of Elah, in Benjamin: <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Geber the son of Uri <em>was</em> in the country of Gilead, <em>in</em> the country of Sihon king of the Amorites, and of Og king of Bashan; and <em>he was</em> the only officer which <em>was</em> in the land. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Judah and Israel <em>were</em> many, as the sand which <em>is</em> by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking, and making merry. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Solomon reigned over all kingdoms from the river unto the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt: they brought presents, and served Solomon all the days of his life. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and threescore measures of meal, <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and an hundred sheep, beside harts, and roebucks, and fallowdeer, and fatted fowl. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he had dominion over all <em>the region</em> on this side the river, from Tiphsah even to Azzah, over all the kings on this side the river: and he had peace on all sides round about him. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig tree, from Dan even to Beersheba, all the days of Solomon. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And those officers provided victual for king Solomon, and for all that came unto king Solomon's table, every man in his month: they lacked nothing. <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Barley also and straw for the horses and dromedaries brought they unto the place where <em>the officers</em> were, every man according to his charge. <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that <em>is</em> on the sea shore. <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east country, and all the wisdom of Egypt. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all nations round about. <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he spake three thousand proverbs: and his songs were a thousand and five. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he spake of trees, from the cedar tree that <em>is</em> in Lebanon even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall: he spake also of beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping things, and of fishes. <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And there came of all people to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth, which had heard of his wisdom.

</body>
</html>