<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 22</h2>

<a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And they continued three years without war between Syria and Israel. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass in the third year, that Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the king of Israel said unto his servants, Know ye that Ramoth in Gilead <em>is</em> ours, and we <em>be</em> still, <em>and</em> take it not out of the hand of the king of Syria? <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he said unto Jehoshaphat, Wilt thou go with me to battle to Ramothgilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, I <em>am</em> as thou <em>art</em>, my people as thy people, my horses as thy horses. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I pray thee, at the word of the LORD to day. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall I go against Ramothgilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for the Lord shall deliver <em>it</em> into the hand of the king. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jehoshaphat said, <em>Is there</em> not here a prophet of the LORD besides, that we might enquire of him? <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, <em>There is</em> yet one man, Micaiah the son of Imlah, by whom we may enquire of the LORD: but I hate him; for he doth not prophesy good concerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Hasten <em>hither</em> Micaiah the son of Imlah. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah sat each on his throne, having put on their robes, in a void place in the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets prophesied before them. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron: and he said, Thus saith the LORD, With these shalt thou push the Syrians, until thou have consumed them. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramothgilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver <em>it</em> into the king's hand. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the messenger that was gone to call Micaiah spake unto him, saying, Behold now, the words of the prophets <em>declare</em> good unto the king with one mouth: let thy word, I pray thee, be like the word of one of them, and speak <em>that which is</em> good. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Micaiah said, <em>As</em> the LORD liveth, what the LORD saith unto me, that will I speak. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So he came to the king. And the king said unto him, Micaiah, shall we go against Ramothgilead to battle, or shall we forbear? And he answered him, Go, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver <em>it</em> into the hand of the king. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the king said unto him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou tell me nothing but <em>that which is</em> true in the name of the LORD? <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills, as sheep that have not a shepherd: and the LORD said, These have no master: let them return every man to his house in peace. <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee that he would prophesy no good concerning me, but evil? <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said, Hear thou therefore the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the LORD said, Who shall persuade Ahab, that he may go up and fall at Ramothgilead? And one said on this manner, and another said on that manner. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will persuade him. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, Thou shalt persuade <em>him</em>, and prevail also: go forth, and do so. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil concerning thee. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah went near, and smote Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from me to speak unto thee? <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see in that day, when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back unto Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son; <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And say, Thus saith the king, Put this <em>fellow</em> in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I come in peace. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, the LORD hath not spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, O people, every one of you. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramothgilead. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and enter into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. And the king of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But the king of Syria commanded his thirty and two captains that had rule over his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel. <a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it <em>is</em> the king of Israel. And they turned aside to fight against him: and Jehoshaphat cried out. <a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots perceived that it <em>was</em> not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him. <a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And a <em>certain</em> man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness: wherefore he said unto the driver of his chariot, Turn thine hand, and carry me out of the host; for I am wounded. <a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even: and the blood ran out of the wound into the midst of the chariot. <a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And there went a proclamation throughout the host about the going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and every man to his own country. <a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> So the king died, and was brought to Samaria; and they buried the king in Samaria. <a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And <em>one</em> washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria; and the dogs licked up his blood; and they washed his armour; according unto the word of the LORD which he spake. <a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Now the rest of the acts of Ahab, and all that he did, and the ivory house which he made, and all the cities that he built, <em>are</em> they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? <a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead. <a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel. <a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Jehoshaphat <em>was</em> thirty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name <em>was</em> Azubah the daughter of Shilhi. <a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he walked in all the ways of Asa his father; he turned not aside from it, doing <em>that which was</em> right in the eyes of the LORD: nevertheless the high places were not taken away; <em>for</em> the people offered and burnt incense yet in the high places. <a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel. <a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he shewed, and how he warred, <em>are</em> they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? <a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And the remnant of the sodomites, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he took out of the land. <a id="c22_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> <em>There was</em> then no king in Edom: a deputy <em>was</em> king. <a id="c22_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Jehoshaphat made ships of Tharshish to go to Ophir for gold: but they went not; for the ships were broken at Eziongeber. <a id="c22_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with thy servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat would not. <a id="c22_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Jehoram his son reigned in his stead. <a id="c22_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned two years over Israel. <a id="c22_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin: <a id="c22_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> For he served Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked to anger the LORD God of Israel, according to all that his father had done.

</body>
</html>