<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Kings 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Kings 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the twenty and seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel began Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah to reign. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned two and fifty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name <em>was</em> Jecholiah of Jerusalem. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he did <em>that which was</em> right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah had done; <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Save that the high places were not removed: the people sacrificed and burnt incense still on the high places. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the LORD smote the king, so that he was a leper unto the day of his death, and dwelt in a several house. And Jotham the king's son <em>was</em> over the house, judging the people of the land. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, <em>are</em> they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In the thirty and eighth year of Azariah king of Judah did Zachariah the son of Jeroboam reign over Israel in Samaria six months. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he did <em>that which was</em> evil in the sight of the LORD, as his fathers had done: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, and smote him before the people, and slew him, and reigned in his stead. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the rest of the acts of Zachariah, behold, they <em>are</em> written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> This <em>was</em> the word of the LORD which he spake unto Jehu, saying, Thy sons shall sit on the throne of Israel unto the fourth <em>generation</em>. And so it came to pass. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the nine and thirtieth year of Uzziah king of Judah; and he reigned a full month in Samaria. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came to Samaria, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and slew him, and reigned in his stead. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy which he made, behold, they <em>are</em> written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then Menahem smote Tiphsah, and all that <em>were</em> therein, and the coasts thereof from Tirzah: because they opened not <em>to him</em>, therefore he smote <em>it; and</em> all the women therein that were with child he ripped up. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In the nine and thirtieth year of Azariah king of Judah began Menahem the son of Gadi to reign over Israel, <em>and reigned</em> ten years in Samaria. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he did <em>that which was</em> evil in the sight of the LORD: he departed not all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> <em>And</em> Pul the king of Assyria came against the land: and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver, that his hand might be with him to confirm the kingdom in his hand. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Menahem exacted the money of Israel, <em>even</em> of all the mighty men of wealth, of each man fifty shekels of silver, to give to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back, and stayed not there in the land. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, <em>are</em> they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reigned in his stead. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria, <em>and reigned</em> two years. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he did <em>that which was</em> evil in the sight of the LORD: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But Pekah the son of Remaliah, a captain of his, conspired against him, and smote him in Samaria, in the palace of the king's house, with Argob and Arieh, and with him fifty men of the Gileadites: and he killed him, and reigned in his room. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did, behold, they <em>are</em> written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> In the two and fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, <em>and reigned</em> twenty years. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he did <em>that which was</em> evil in the sight of the LORD: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglathpileser king of Assyria, and took Ijon, and Abelbethmaachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and carried them captive to Assyria. <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and smote him, and slew him, and reigned in his stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold, they <em>are</em> written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel began Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah to reign. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Five and twenty years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name <em>was</em> Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he did <em>that which was</em> right in the sight of the LORD: he did according to all that his father Uzziah had done. <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Howbeit the high places were not removed: the people sacrificed and burned incense still in the high places. He built the higher gate of the house of the LORD. <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, <em>are</em> they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> In those days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah. <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.

</body>
</html>