<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nehemiah 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nehemiah 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed, <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> That I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the palace, charge over Jerusalem: for he <em>was</em> a faithful man, and feared God above many. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot; and while they stand by, let them shut the doors, and bar <em>them</em>: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one <em>to be</em> over against his house. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now the city <em>was</em> large and great: but the people <em>were</em> few therein, and the houses <em>were</em> not builded. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And my God put into mine heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found a register of the genealogy of them which came up at the first, and found written therein, <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> These <em>are</em> the children of the province, that went up out of the captivity, of those that had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away, and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto his city; <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number, <em>I say</em>, of the men of the people of Israel <em>was this</em>; <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and two. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred <em>and</em> eighteen. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty and five. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and eight. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty and two. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The children of Adonikam, six hundred threescore and seven. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and seven. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty and eight. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and four. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The children of Hariph, an hundred and twelve. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The children of Gibeon, ninety and five. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, an hundred fourscore and eight. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The men of Bethazmaveth, forty and two. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty and three. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty and one. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and two. <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The men of Bethel and Ai, an hundred twenty and three. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and one. <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty. <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three. <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two. <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven. <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen. <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, <em>and</em> of the children of Hodevah, seventy and four. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred forty and eight. <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, an hundred thirty and eight. <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hashupha, the children of Tabbaoth, <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> The children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon, <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> The children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Shalmai, <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> The children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> The children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, <a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> The children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Phaseah, <a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephishesim, <a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, <a id="c7_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> The children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, <a id="c7_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Tamah, <a id="c7_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha. <a id="c7_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida, <a id="c7_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> The children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, <a id="c7_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Amon. <a id="c7_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants, <em>were</em> three hundred ninety and two. <a id="c7_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And these <em>were</em> they which went up <em>also</em> from Telmelah, Telharesha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not shew their father's house, nor their seed, whether they <em>were</em> of Israel. <a id="c7_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred forty and two. <a id="c7_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> And of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, the children of Barzillai, which took <em>one</em> of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite to wife, and was called after their name. <a id="c7_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> These sought their register <em>among</em> those that were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they, as polluted, put from the priesthood. <a id="c7_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood <em>up</em> a priest with Urim and Thummim. <a id="c7_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> The whole congregation together <em>was</em> forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore, <a id="c7_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Beside their manservants and their maidservants, of whom <em>there were</em> seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and they had two hundred forty and five singing men and singing women. <a id="c7_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> Their horses, seven hundred thirty and six: their mules, two hundred forty and five: <a id="c7_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> <em>Their</em> camels, four hundred thirty and five: six thousand seven hundred and twenty asses. <a id="c7_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> And some of the chief of the fathers gave unto the work. The Tirshatha gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold, fifty basons, five hundred and thirty priests' garments. <a id="c7_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> And <em>some</em> of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of the work twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pound of silver. <a id="c7_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> And <em>that</em> which the rest of the people gave <em>was</em> twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand pound of silver, and threescore and seven priests' garments. <a id="c7_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and <em>some</em> of the people, and the Nethinims, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the children of Israel <em>were</em> in their cities.

</body>
</html>