<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nehemiah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nehemiah 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass, when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and Geshem the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies, heard that I had builded the wall, and <em>that</em> there was no breach left therein; (though at that time I had not set up the doors upon the gates;) <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> That Sanballat and Geshem sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in <em>some one of</em> the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I sent messengers unto them, saying, I <em>am</em> doing a great work, so that I cannot come down: why should the work cease, whilst I leave it, and come down to you? <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet they sent unto me four times after this sort; and I answered them after the same manner. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then sent Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth time with an open letter in his hand; <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherein <em>was</em> written, It is reported among the heathen, and Gashmu saith <em>it, that</em> thou and the Jews think to rebel: for which cause thou buildest the wall, that thou mayest be their king, according to these words. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou hast also appointed prophets to preach of thee at Jerusalem, saying, <em>There is</em> a king in Judah: and now shall it be reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore, and let us take counsel together. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done as thou sayest, but thou feignest them out of thine own heart. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For they all made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened from the work, that it be not done. Now therefore, <em>O God</em>, strengthen my hands. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Afterward I came unto the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabeel, who <em>was</em> shut up; and he said, Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple: for they will come to slay thee; yea, in the night will they come to slay thee. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I said, Should such a man as I flee? and who <em>is there</em>, that, <em>being</em> as I <em>am</em>, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And, lo, I perceived that God had not sent him; but that he pronounced this prophecy against me: for Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore <em>was</em> he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, and sin, and <em>that</em> they might have <em>matter</em> for an evil report, that they might reproach me. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My God, think thou upon Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and on the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the prophets, that would have put me in fear. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth <em>day</em> of <em>the month</em> Elul, in fifty and two days. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it came to pass, that when all our enemies heard <em>thereof</em>, and all the heathen that <em>were</em> about us saw <em>these things</em>, they were much cast down in their own eyes: for they perceived that this work was wrought of our God. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto Tobiah, and <em>the letters</em> of Tobiah came unto them. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For <em>there were</em> many in Judah sworn unto him, because he <em>was</em> the son in law of Shechaniah the son of Arah; and his son Johanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also they reported his good deeds before me, and uttered my words to him. <em>And</em> Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.

</body>
</html>