<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 10</h2>

<a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My soul is weary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon myself; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will say unto God, Do not condemn me; shew me wherefore thou contendest with me. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> <em>Is it</em> good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress, that thou shouldest despise the work of thine hands, and shine upon the counsel of the wicked? <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man seeth? <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>Are</em> thy days as the days of man? <em>are</em> thy years as man's days, <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That thou enquirest after mine iniquity, and searchest after my sin? <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou knowest that I am not wicked; and <em>there is</em> none that can deliver out of thine hand. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thine hands have made me and fashioned me together round about; yet thou dost destroy me. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay; and wilt thou bring me into dust again? <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hast thou not poured me out as milk, and curdled me like cheese? <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and hast fenced me with bones and sinews. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy visitation hath preserved my spirit. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And these <em>things</em> hast thou hid in thine heart: I know that this <em>is</em> with thee. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I sin, then thou markest me, and thou wilt not acquit me from mine iniquity. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I be wicked, woe unto me; and <em>if</em> I be righteous, <em>yet</em> will I not lift up my head. <em>I am</em> full of confusion; therefore see thou mine affliction; <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For it increaseth. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion: and again thou shewest thyself marvellous upon me. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increasest thine indignation upon me; changes and war <em>are</em> against me. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb? Oh that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me! <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I should have been as though I had not been; I should have been carried from the womb to the grave. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> <em>Are</em> not my days few? cease <em>then, and</em> let me alone, that I may take comfort a little, <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Before I go <em>whence</em> I shall not return, <em>even</em> to the land of darkness and the shadow of death; <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A land of darkness, as darkness <em>itself; and</em> of the shadow of death, without any order, and <em>where</em> the light <em>is</em> as darkness.

</body>
</html>