<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 36</h2>

<a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Elihu also proceeded, and said, <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee that <em>I have</em> yet to speak on God's behalf. <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For truly my words <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em> false: he that is perfect in knowledge <em>is</em> with thee. <a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, God <em>is</em> mighty, and despiseth not <em>any: he is</em> mighty in strength <em>and</em> wisdom. <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the poor. <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings <em>are they</em> on the throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they are exalted. <a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And if <em>they be</em> bound in fetters, <em>and</em> be holden in cords of affliction; <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then he sheweth them their work, and their transgressions that they have exceeded. <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that they return from iniquity. <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they obey and serve <em>him</em>, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge. <a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he bindeth them. <a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They die in youth, and their life <em>is</em> among the unclean. <a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He delivereth the poor in his affliction, and openeth their ears in oppression. <a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait <em>into</em> a broad place, where <em>there is</em> no straitness; and that which should be set on thy table <em>should be</em> full of fatness. <a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and justice take hold <em>on thee</em>. <a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Because <em>there is</em> wrath, <em>beware</em> lest he take thee away with <em>his</em> stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver thee. <a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Will he esteem thy riches? <em>no</em>, not gold, nor all the forces of strength. <a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place. <a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this hast thou chosen rather than affliction. <a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold, God exalteth by his power: who teacheth like him? <a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought iniquity? <a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Remember that thou magnify his work, which men behold. <a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Every man may see it; man may behold <em>it</em> afar off. <a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Behold, God <em>is</em> great, and we know <em>him</em> not, neither can the number of his years be searched out. <a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For he maketh small the drops of water: they pour down rain according to the vapour thereof: <a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Which the clouds do drop <em>and</em> distil upon man abundantly. <a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Also can <em>any</em> understand the spreadings of the clouds, <em>or</em> the noise of his tabernacle? <a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Behold, he spreadeth his light upon it, and covereth the bottom of the sea. <a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For by them judgeth he the people; he giveth meat in abundance. <a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> With clouds he covereth the light; and commandeth it <em>not to shine</em> by <em>the cloud</em> that cometh betwixt. <a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The noise thereof sheweth concerning it, the cattle also concerning the vapour.

</body>
</html>