<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Call now, if there be any that will answer thee; and to which of the saints wilt thou turn? <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For wrath killeth the foolish man, and envy slayeth the silly one. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have seen the foolish taking root: but suddenly I cursed his habitation. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His children are far from safety, and they are crushed in the gate, neither <em>is there</em> any to deliver <em>them</em>. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, and taketh it even out of the thorns, and the robber swalloweth up their substance. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Although affliction cometh not forth of the dust, neither doth trouble spring out of the ground; <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yet man is born unto trouble, as the sparks fly upward. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I would seek unto God, and unto God would I commit my cause: <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Which doeth great things and unsearchable; marvellous things without number: <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who giveth rain upon the earth, and sendeth waters upon the fields: <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> To set up on high those that be low; that those which mourn may be exalted to safety. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, so that their hands cannot perform <em>their</em> enterprise. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He taketh the wise in their own craftiness: and the counsel of the froward is carried headlong. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They meet with darkness in the daytime, and grope in the noonday as in the night. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But he saveth the poor from the sword, from their mouth, and from the hand of the mighty. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So the poor hath hope, and iniquity stoppeth her mouth. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Behold, happy <em>is</em> the man whom God correcteth: therefore despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty: <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he maketh sore, and bindeth up: he woundeth, and his hands make whole. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall deliver thee in six troubles: yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In famine he shall redeem thee from death: and in war from the power of the sword. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue: neither shalt thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh: neither shalt thou be afraid of the beasts of the earth. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle <em>shall be</em> in peace; and thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not sin. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Thou shalt know also that thy seed <em>shall be</em> great, and thine offspring as the grass of the earth. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Thou shalt come to <em>thy</em> grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn cometh in in his season. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Lo this, we have searched it, so it <em>is</em>; hear it, and know thou <em>it</em> for thy good.

</body>
</html>