<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Job answered and said, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Oh that my grief were throughly weighed, and my calamity laid in the balances together! <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea: therefore my words are swallowed up. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the arrows of the Almighty <em>are</em> within me, the poison whereof drinketh up my spirit: the terrors of God do set themselves in array against me. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or loweth the ox over his fodder? <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or is there <em>any</em> taste in the white of an egg? <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The things <em>that</em> my soul refused to touch <em>are</em> as my sorrowful meat. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Oh that I might have my request; and that God would grant <em>me</em> the thing that I long for! <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Even that it would please God to destroy me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off! <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then should I yet have comfort; yea, I would harden myself in sorrow: let him not spare; for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> What <em>is</em> my strength, that I should hope? and what <em>is</em> mine end, that I should prolong my life? <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> <em>Is</em> my strength the strength of stones? or <em>is</em> my flesh of brass? <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> <em>Is</em> not my help in me? and is wisdom driven quite from me? <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> To him that is afflicted pity <em>should be shewed</em> from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the Almighty. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, <em>and</em> as the stream of brooks they pass away; <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Which are blackish by reason of the ice, <em>and</em> wherein the snow is hid: <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> What time they wax warm, they vanish: when it is hot, they are consumed out of their place. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing, and perish. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The troops of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for them. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They were confounded because they had hoped; they came thither, and were ashamed. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For now ye are nothing; ye see <em>my</em> casting down, and are afraid. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Did I say, Bring unto me? or, Give a reward for me of your substance? <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Or, Deliver me from the enemy's hand? or, Redeem me from the hand of the mighty? <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Teach me, and I will hold my tongue: and cause me to understand wherein I have erred. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How forcible are right words! but what doth your arguing reprove? <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Do ye imagine to reprove words, and the speeches of one that is desperate, <em>which are</em> as wind? <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless, and ye dig <em>a pit</em> for your friend. <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now therefore be content, look upon me; for <em>it is</em> evident unto you if I lie. <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity; yea, return again, my righteousness <em>is</em> in it. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Is there iniquity in my tongue? cannot my taste discern perverse things?

</body>
</html>