<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 16</h2>

<a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have heard many such things: miserable comforters <em>are</em> ye all. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Shall vain words have an end? or what emboldeneth thee that thou answerest? <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I also could speak as ye <em>do</em>: if your soul were in my soul's stead, I could heap up words against you, and shake mine head at you. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>But</em> I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my lips should asswage <em>your grief</em>. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Though I speak, my grief is not asswaged: and <em>though</em> I forbear, what am I eased? <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But now he hath made me weary: thou hast made desolate all my company. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, <em>which</em> is a witness <em>against me</em>: and my leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He teareth <em>me</em> in his wrath, who hateth me: he gnasheth upon me with his teeth; mine enemy sharpeneth his eyes upon me. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have gaped upon me with their mouth; they have smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully; they have gathered themselves together against me. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God hath delivered me to the ungodly, and turned me over into the hands of the wicked. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder: he hath also taken <em>me</em> by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for his mark. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His archers compass me round about, he cleaveth my reins asunder, and doth not spare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He breaketh me with breach upon breach, he runneth upon me like a giant. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and defiled my horn in the dust. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My face is foul with weeping, and on my eyelids <em>is</em> the shadow of death; <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Not for <em>any</em> injustice in mine hands: also my prayer <em>is</em> pure. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> O earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no place. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also now, behold, my witness <em>is</em> in heaven, and my record <em>is</em> on high. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My friends scorn me: <em>but</em> mine eye poureth out <em>tears</em> unto God. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> O that one might plead for a man with God, as a man <em>pleadeth</em> for his neighbour! <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When a few years are come, then I shall go the way <em>whence</em> I shall not return.

</body>
</html>