<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 28</h2>

<a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold <em>where</em> they fine <em>it</em>. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Iron is taken out of the earth, and brass <em>is</em> molten <em>out of</em> the stone. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out all perfection: the stones of darkness, and the shadow of death. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The flood breaketh out from the inhabitant; <em>even the waters</em> forgotten of the foot: they are dried up, they are gone away from men. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>As for</em> the earth, out of it cometh bread: and under it is turned up as it were fire. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The stones of it <em>are</em> the place of sapphires: and it hath dust of gold. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>There is</em> a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture's eye hath not seen: <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The lion's whelps have not trodden it, nor the fierce lion passed by it. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He putteth forth his hand upon the rock; he overturneth the mountains by the roots. <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He cutteth out rivers among the rocks; and his eye seeth every precious thing. <a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He bindeth the floods from overflowing; and <em>the thing that is</em> hid bringeth he forth to light. <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But where shall wisdom be found? and where <em>is</em> the place of understanding? <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it found in the land of the living. <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The depth saith, It <em>is</em> not in me: and the sea saith, <em>It is</em> not with me. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed <em>for</em> the price thereof. <a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The gold and the crystal cannot equal it: and the exchange of it <em>shall not be for</em> jewels of fine gold. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls: for the price of wisdom <em>is</em> above rubies. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be valued with pure gold. <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whence then cometh wisdom? and where <em>is</em> the place of understanding? <a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, and kept close from the fowls of the air. <a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Destruction and death say, We have heard the fame thereof with our ears. <a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place thereof. <a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he looketh to the ends of the earth, <em>and</em> seeth under the whole heaven; <a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> To make the weight for the winds; and he weigheth the waters by measure. <a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning of the thunder: <a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then did he see it, and declare it; he prepared it, yea, and searched it out. <a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that <em>is</em> wisdom; and to depart from evil <em>is</em> understanding.

</body>
</html>