<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 14</h2>

<a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Man <em>that is</em> born of a woman <em>is</em> of few days, and full of trouble. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And dost thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me into judgment with thee? <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who can bring a clean <em>thing</em> out of an unclean? not one. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Seeing his days <em>are</em> determined, the number of his months <em>are</em> with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass; <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an hireling, his day. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground; <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>Yet</em> through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where <em>is</em> he? <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>As</em> the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up: <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So man lieth down, and riseth not: till the heavens <em>be</em> no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me! <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If a man die, shall he live <em>again</em>? all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire to the work of thine hands. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my sin? <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My transgression <em>is</em> sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up mine iniquity. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And surely the mountain falling cometh to nought, and the rock is removed out of his place. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which grow <em>out</em> of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of man. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His sons come to honour, and he knoweth <em>it</em> not; and they are brought low, but he perceiveth <em>it</em> not of them. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him shall mourn.

</body>
</html>