<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> <em>If</em> we assay to commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved? but who can withhold himself from speaking? <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, thou hast instructed many, and thou hast strengthened the weak hands. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy words have upholden him that was falling, and thou hast strengthened the feeble knees. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now it is come upon thee, and thou faintest; it toucheth thee, and thou art troubled. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> <em>Is</em> not <em>this</em> thy fear, thy confidence, thy hope, and the uprightness of thy ways? <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember, I pray thee, who <em>ever</em> perished, being innocent? or where were the righteous cut off? <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Even as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, and sow wickedness, reap the same. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By the blast of God they perish, and by the breath of his nostrils are they consumed. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, and the teeth of the young lions, are broken. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, and the stout lion's whelps are scattered abroad. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and mine ear received a little thereof. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth on men, <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Fear came upon me, and trembling, which made all my bones to shake. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood up: <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: an image <em>was</em> before mine eyes, <em>there was</em> silence, and I heard a voice, <em>saying</em>, <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shall mortal man be more just than God? shall a man be more pure than his maker? <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, he put no trust in his servants; and his angels he charged with folly: <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How much less <em>in</em> them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation <em>is</em> in the dust, <em>which</em> are crushed before the moth? <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They are destroyed from morning to evening: they perish for ever without any regarding <em>it</em>. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Doth not their excellency <em>which is</em> in them go away? they die, even without wisdom.

</body>
</html>