<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 20</h2>

<a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore do my thoughts cause me to answer, and for <em>this</em> I make haste. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my understanding causeth me to answer. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Knowest thou <em>not</em> this of old, since man was placed upon earth, <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That the triumphing of the wicked <em>is</em> short, and the joy of the hypocrite <em>but</em> for a moment? <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Though his excellency mount up to the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds; <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>Yet</em> he shall perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say, Where <em>is</em> he? <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found: yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The eye also <em>which</em> saw him shall <em>see him</em> no more; neither shall his place any more behold him. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His children shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall restore their goods. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His bones are full <em>of the sin</em> of his youth, which shall lie down with him in the dust. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, <em>though</em> he hide it under his tongue; <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> <em>Though</em> he spare it, and forsake it not; but keep it still within his mouth: <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> <em>Yet</em> his meat in his bowels is turned, <em>it is</em> the gall of asps within him. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again: God shall cast them out of his belly. <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He shall suck the poison of asps: the viper's tongue shall slay him. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He shall not see the rivers, the floods, the brooks of honey and butter. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> That which he laboured for shall he restore, and shall not swallow <em>it</em> down: according to <em>his</em> substance <em>shall</em> the restitution <em>be</em>, and he shall not rejoice <em>therein</em>. <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Because he hath oppressed <em>and</em> hath forsaken the poor; <em>because</em> he hath violently taken away an house which he builded not; <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Surely he shall not feel quietness in his belly, he shall not save of that which he desired. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There shall none of his meat be left; therefore shall no man look for his goods. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits: every hand of the wicked shall come upon him. <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> <em>When</em> he is about to fill his belly, <em>God</em> shall cast the fury of his wrath upon him, and shall rain <em>it</em> upon him while he is eating. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He shall flee from the iron weapon, <em>and</em> the bow of steel shall strike him through. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It is drawn, and cometh out of the body; yea, the glittering sword cometh out of his gall: terrors <em>are</em> upon him. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All darkness <em>shall be</em> hid in his secret places: a fire not blown shall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his tabernacle. <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The heaven shall reveal his iniquity; and the earth shall rise up against him. <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The increase of his house shall depart, <em>and his goods</em> shall flow away in the day of his wrath. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> This <em>is</em> the portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage appointed unto him by God.

</body>
</html>