<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <em>Is there</em> not an appointed time to man upon earth? <em>are not</em> his days also like the days of an hireling? <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As a servant earnestly desireth the shadow, and as an hireling looketh for <em>the reward of</em> his work: <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So am I made to possess months of vanity, and wearisome nights are appointed to me. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When I lie down, I say, When shall I arise, and the night be gone? and I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of the day. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is broken, and become loathsome. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O remember that my life <em>is</em> wind: mine eye shall no more see good. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no <em>more</em>: thine eyes <em>are</em> upon me, and I <em>am</em> not. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>As</em> the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he that goeth down to the grave shall come up no <em>more</em>. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place know him any more. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore I will not refrain my mouth; I will speak in the anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the bitterness of my soul. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> <em>Am</em> I a sea, or a whale, that thou settest a watch over me? <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease my complaint; <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me through visions: <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So that my soul chooseth strangling, <em>and</em> death rather than my life. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I loathe <em>it</em>; I would not live alway: let me alone; for my days <em>are</em> vanity. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> What <em>is</em> man, that thou shouldest magnify him? and that thou shouldest set thine heart upon him? <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And <em>that</em> thou shouldest visit him every morning, <em>and</em> try him every moment? <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How long wilt thou not depart from me, nor let me alone till I swallow down my spittle? <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have sinned; what shall I do unto thee, O thou preserver of men? why hast thou set me as a mark against thee, so that I am a burden to myself? <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And why dost thou not pardon my transgression, and take away mine iniquity? for now shall I sleep in the dust; and thou shalt seek me in the morning, but I <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em>.

</body>
</html>