<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 34</h2>

<a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Furthermore Elihu answered and said, <a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear my words, O ye wise <em>men</em>; and give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge. <a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the ear trieth words, as the mouth tasteth meat. <a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let us choose to us judgment: let us know among ourselves what <em>is</em> good. <a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Job hath said, I am righteous: and God hath taken away my judgment. <a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Should I lie against my right? my wound <em>is</em> incurable without transgression. <a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What man <em>is</em> like Job, <em>who</em> drinketh up scorning like water? <a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, and walketh with wicked men. <a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing that he should delight himself with God. <a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore hearken unto me, ye men of understanding: far be it from God, <em>that he should do</em> wickedness; and <em>from</em> the Almighty, <em>that he should commit</em> iniquity. <a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the work of a man shall he render unto him, and cause every man to find according to <em>his</em> ways. <a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, surely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert judgment. <a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who hath given him a charge over the earth? or who hath disposed the whole world? <a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If he set his heart upon man, <em>if</em> he gather unto himself his spirit and his breath; <a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All flesh shall perish together, and man shall turn again unto dust. <a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If now <em>thou hast</em> understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice of my words. <a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shall even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn him that is most just? <a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> <em>Is it fit</em> to say to a king, <em>Thou art</em> wicked? <em>and</em> to princes, <em>Ye are</em> ungodly? <a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> <em>How much less to him</em> that accepteth not the persons of princes, nor regardeth the rich more than the poor? for they all <em>are</em> the work of his hands. <a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In a moment shall they die, and the people shall be troubled at midnight, and pass away: and the mighty shall be taken away without hand. <a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For his eyes <em>are</em> upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings. <a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> <em>There is</em> no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves. <a id="c34_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For he will not lay upon man more <em>than right</em>; that he should enter into judgment with God. <a id="c34_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He shall break in pieces mighty men without number, and set others in their stead. <a id="c34_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore he knoweth their works, and he overturneth <em>them</em> in the night, so that they are destroyed. <a id="c34_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of others; <a id="c34_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Because they turned back from him, and would not consider any of his ways: <a id="c34_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted. <a id="c34_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When he giveth quietness, who then can make trouble? and when he hideth <em>his</em> face, who then can behold him? whether <em>it be done</em> against a nation, or against a man only: <a id="c34_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> That the hypocrite reign not, lest the people be ensnared. <a id="c34_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Surely it is meet to be said unto God, I have borne <em>chastisement</em>, I will not offend <em>any more</em>: <a id="c34_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> <em>That which</em> I see not teach thou me: if I have done iniquity, I will do no more. <a id="c34_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> <em>Should it be</em> according to thy mind? he will recompense it, whether thou refuse, or whether thou choose; and not I: therefore speak what thou knowest. <a id="c34_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken unto me. <a id="c34_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words <em>were</em> without wisdom. <a id="c34_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> My desire <em>is that</em> Job may be tried unto the end because of <em>his</em> answers for wicked men. <a id="c34_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth <em>his hands</em> among us, and multiplieth his words against God.

</body>
</html>