<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 30</h2>

<a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But now <em>they that are</em> younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock. <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yea, whereto <em>might</em> the strength of their hands <em>profit</em> me, in whom old age was perished? <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For want and famine <em>they were</em> solitary; fleeing into the wilderness in former time desolate and waste. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper roots <em>for</em> their meat. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They were driven forth from among <em>men</em>, (they cried after them as <em>after</em> a thief;) <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> To dwell in the clifts of the valleys, <em>in</em> caves of the earth, and <em>in</em> the rocks. <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Among the bushes they brayed; under the nettles they were gathered together. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>They were</em> children of fools, yea, children of base men: they were viler than the earth. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now am I their song, yea, I am their byword. <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They abhor me, they flee far from me, and spare not to spit in my face. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because he hath loosed my cord, and afflicted me, they have also let loose the bridle before me. <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Upon <em>my</em> right <em>hand</em> rise the youth; they push away my feet, and they raise up against me the ways of their destruction. <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, they have no helper. <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They came <em>upon me</em> as a wide breaking in <em>of waters</em>: in the desolation they rolled themselves <em>upon me</em>. <a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Terrors are turned upon me: they pursue my soul as the wind: and my welfare passeth away as a cloud. <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And now my soul is poured out upon me; the days of affliction have taken hold upon me. <a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My bones are pierced in me in the night season: and my sinews take no rest. <a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By the great force <em>of my disease</em> is my garment changed: it bindeth me about as the collar of my coat. <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He hath cast me into the mire, and I am become like dust and ashes. <a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me: I stand up, and thou regardest me <em>not</em>. <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou art become cruel to me: with thy strong hand thou opposest thyself against me. <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to ride <em>upon it</em>, and dissolvest my substance. <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I know <em>that</em> thou wilt bring me <em>to</em> death, and <em>to</em> the house appointed for all living. <a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Howbeit he will not stretch out <em>his</em> hand to the grave, though they cry in his destruction. <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? was <em>not</em> my soul grieved for the poor? <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When I looked for good, then evil came <em>unto me</em>: and when I waited for light, there came darkness. <a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My bowels boiled, and rested not: the days of affliction prevented me. <a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I went mourning without the sun: I stood up, <em>and</em> I cried in the congregation. <a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I am a brother to dragons, and a companion to owls. <a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat. <a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> My harp also is <em>turned</em> to mourning, and my organ into the voice of them that weep.

</body>
</html>