<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I know <em>it is</em> so of a truth: but how should man be just with God? <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one of a thousand. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> <em>He is</em> wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath hardened <em>himself</em> against him, and hath prospered? <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Which removeth the mountains, and they know not: which overturneth them in his anger. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Which shaketh the earth out of her place, and the pillars thereof tremble. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Which commandeth the sun, and it riseth not; and sealeth up the stars. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Which alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves of the sea. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of the south. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Which doeth great things past finding out; yea, and wonders without number. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, he goeth by me, and I see <em>him</em> not: he passeth on also, but I perceive him not. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, he taketh away, who can hinder him? who will say unto him, What doest thou? <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> <em>If</em> God will not withdraw his anger, the proud helpers do stoop under him. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How much less shall I answer him, <em>and</em> choose out my words <em>to reason</em> with him? <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whom, though I were righteous, <em>yet</em> would I not answer, <em>but</em> I would make supplication to my judge. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If I had called, and he had answered me; <em>yet</em> would I not believe that he had hearkened unto my voice. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For he breaketh me with a tempest, and multiplieth my wounds without cause. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He will not suffer me to take my breath, but filleth me with bitterness. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If <em>I speak</em> of strength, lo, <em>he is</em> strong: and if of judgment, who shall set me a time <em>to plead</em>? <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If I justify myself, mine own mouth shall condemn me: <em>if I say</em>, I <em>am</em> perfect, it shall also prove me perverse. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> <em>Though</em> I <em>were</em> perfect, <em>yet</em> would I not know my soul: I would despise my life. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> This <em>is</em> one <em>thing</em>, therefore I said <em>it</em>, He destroyeth the perfect and the wicked. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If the scourge slay suddenly, he will laugh at the trial of the innocent. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The earth is given into the hand of the wicked: he covereth the faces of the judges thereof; if not, where, <em>and</em> who <em>is</em> he? <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now my days are swifter than a post: they flee away, they see no good. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They are passed away as the swift ships: as the eagle <em>that</em> hasteth to the prey. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will leave off my heaviness, and comfort <em>myself</em>: <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I am afraid of all my sorrows, I know that thou wilt not hold me innocent. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> <em>If</em> I be wicked, why then labour I in vain? <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If I wash myself with snow water, and make my hands never so clean; <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Yet shalt thou plunge me in the ditch, and mine own clothes shall abhor me. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For <em>he is</em> not a man, as I <em>am, that</em> I should answer him, <em>and</em> we should come together in judgment. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Neither is there any daysman betwixt us, <em>that</em> might lay his hand upon us both. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrify me: <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> <em>Then</em> would I speak, and not fear him; but <em>it is</em> not so with me.

</body>
</html>