<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 11</h2>

<a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Should not the multitude of words be answered? and should a man full of talk be justified? <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Should thy lies make men hold their peace? and when thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed? <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast said, My doctrine <em>is</em> pure, and I am clean in thine eyes. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But oh that God would speak, and open his lips against thee; <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And that he would shew thee the secrets of wisdom, that <em>they are</em> double to that which is! Know therefore that God exacteth of thee <em>less</em> than thine iniquity <em>deserveth</em>. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection? <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>It is</em> as high as heaven; what canst thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know? <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The measure thereof <em>is</em> longer than the earth, and broader than the sea. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If he cut off, and shut up, or gather together, then who can hinder him? <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he knoweth vain men: he seeth wickedness also; will he not then consider <em>it</em>? <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For vain man would be wise, though man be born <em>like</em> a wild ass's colt. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward him; <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If iniquity <em>be</em> in thine hand, put it far away, and let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot; yea, thou shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear: <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because thou shalt forget <em>thy</em> misery, <em>and</em> remember <em>it</em> as waters <em>that</em> pass away: <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And <em>thine</em> age shall be clearer than the noonday; thou shalt shine forth, thou shalt be as the morning. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope; yea, thou shalt dig <em>about thee, and</em> thou shalt take thy rest in safety. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make <em>thee</em> afraid; yea, many shall make suit unto thee. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the eyes of the wicked shall fail, and they shall not escape, and their hope <em>shall be as</em> the giving up of the ghost.

</body>
</html>