<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 38</h2>

<a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said, <a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who <em>is</em> this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? <a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. <a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast understanding. <a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath stretched the line upon it? <a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof; <a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy? <a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Or <em>who</em> shut up the sea with doors, when it brake forth, <em>as if</em> it had issued out of the womb? <a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When I made the cloud the garment thereof, and thick darkness a swaddlingband for it, <a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And brake up for it my decreed <em>place</em>, and set bars and doors, <a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And said, Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further: and here shall thy proud waves be stayed? <a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days; <em>and</em> caused the dayspring to know his place; <a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken out of it? <a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> It is turned as clay <em>to</em> the seal; and they stand as a garment. <a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And from the wicked their light is withholden, and the high arm shall be broken. <a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? or hast thou walked in the search of the depth? <a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Have the gates of death been opened unto thee? or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death? <a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth? declare if thou knowest it all. <a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Where <em>is</em> the way <em>where</em> light dwelleth? and <em>as for</em> darkness, where <em>is</em> the place thereof, <a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> That thou shouldest take it to the bound thereof, and that thou shouldest know the paths <em>to</em> the house thereof? <a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Knowest thou <em>it</em>, because thou wast then born? or <em>because</em> the number of thy days <em>is</em> great? <a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail, <a id="c38_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war? <a id="c38_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> By what way is the light parted, <em>which</em> scattereth the east wind upon the earth? <a id="c38_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who hath divided a watercourse for the overflowing of waters, or a way for the lightning of thunder; <a id="c38_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> To cause it to rain on the earth, <em>where</em> no man <em>is; on</em> the wilderness, wherein <em>there is</em> no man; <a id="c38_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> To satisfy the desolate and waste <em>ground</em>; and to cause the bud of the tender herb to spring forth? <a id="c38_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Hath the rain a father? or who hath begotten the drops of dew? <a id="c38_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Out of whose womb came the ice? and the hoary frost of heaven, who hath gendered it? <a id="c38_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The waters are hid as <em>with</em> a stone, and the face of the deep is frozen. <a id="c38_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion? <a id="c38_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season? or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons? <a id="c38_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven? canst thou set the dominion thereof in the earth? <a id="c38_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that abundance of waters may cover thee? <a id="c38_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Canst thou send lightnings, that they may go, and say unto thee, Here we <em>are</em>? <a id="c38_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understanding to the heart? <a id="c38_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Who can number the clouds in wisdom? or who can stay the bottles of heaven, <a id="c38_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> When the dust groweth into hardness, and the clods cleave fast together? <a id="c38_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Wilt thou hunt the prey for the lion? or fill the appetite of the young lions, <a id="c38_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> When they couch in <em>their</em> dens, <em>and</em> abide in the covert to lie in wait? <a id="c38_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Who provideth for the raven his food? when his young ones cry unto God, they wander for lack of meat.

</body>
</html>