<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 18</h2>

<a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long <em>will it be ere</em> ye make an end of words? mark, and afterwards we will speak. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Wherefore are we counted as beasts, <em>and</em> reputed vile in your sight? <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He teareth himself in his anger: shall the earth be forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out of his place? <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of his fire shall not shine. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall be put out with him. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The steps of his strength shall be straitened, and his own counsel shall cast him down. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a snare. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The gin shall take <em>him</em> by the heel, <em>and</em> the robber shall prevail against him. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The snare <em>is</em> laid for him in the ground, and a trap for him in the way. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him to his feet. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His strength shall be hungerbitten, and destruction <em>shall be</em> ready at his side. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> It shall devour the strength of his skin: <em>even</em> the firstborn of death shall devour his strength. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it shall bring him to the king of terrors. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It shall dwell in his tabernacle, because <em>it is</em> none of his: brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch be cut off. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have no name in the street. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of the world. <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people, nor any remaining in his dwellings. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They that come after <em>him</em> shall be astonied at his day, as they that went before were affrighted. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Surely such <em>are</em> the dwellings of the wicked, and this <em>is</em> the place <em>of him that</em> knoweth not God.

</body>
</html>