<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 39</h2>

<a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Knowest thou the time when the wild goats of the rock bring forth? <em>or</em> canst thou mark when the hinds do calve? <a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Canst thou number the months <em>that</em> they fulfil? or knowest thou the time when they bring forth? <a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They bow themselves, they bring forth their young ones, they cast out their sorrows. <a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their young ones are in good liking, they grow up with corn; they go forth, and return not unto them. <a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who hath sent out the wild ass free? or who hath loosed the bands of the wild ass? <a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whose house I have made the wilderness, and the barren land his dwellings. <a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He scorneth the multitude of the city, neither regardeth he the crying of the driver. <a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The range of the mountains <em>is</em> his pasture, and he searcheth after every green thing. <a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will the unicorn be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib? <a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow? or will he harrow the valleys after thee? <a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wilt thou trust him, because his strength <em>is</em> great? or wilt thou leave thy labour to him? <a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wilt thou believe him, that he will bring home thy seed, and gather <em>it into</em> thy barn? <a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> <em>Gavest thou</em> the goodly wings unto the peacocks? or wings and feathers unto the ostrich? <a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Which leaveth her eggs in the earth, and warmeth them in dust, <a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And forgetteth that the foot may crush them, or that the wild beast may break them. <a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> She is hardened against her young ones, as though <em>they were</em> not hers: her labour is in vain without fear; <a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because God hath deprived her of wisdom, neither hath he imparted to her understanding. <a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What time she lifteth up herself on high, she scorneth the horse and his rider. <a id="c39_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hast thou given the horse strength? hast thou clothed his neck with thunder? <a id="c39_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Canst thou make him afraid as a grasshopper? the glory of his nostrils <em>is</em> terrible. <a id="c39_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in <em>his</em> strength: he goeth on to meet the armed men. <a id="c39_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He mocketh at fear, and is not affrighted; neither turneth he back from the sword. <a id="c39_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The quiver rattleth against him, the glittering spear and the shield. <a id="c39_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage: neither believeth he that <em>it is</em> the sound of the trumpet. <a id="c39_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He saith among the trumpets, Ha, ha; and he smelleth the battle afar off, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting. <a id="c39_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Doth the hawk fly by thy wisdom, <em>and</em> stretch her wings toward the south? <a id="c39_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, and make her nest on high? <a id="c39_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> She dwelleth and abideth on the rock, upon the crag of the rock, and the strong place. <a id="c39_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> From thence she seeketh the prey, <em>and</em> her eyes behold afar off. <a id="c39_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Her young ones also suck up blood: and where the slain <em>are</em>, there <em>is</em> she.

</body>
</html>