<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 21</h2>

<a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Job answered and said, <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear diligently my speech, and let this be your consolations. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Suffer me that I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock on. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As for me, <em>is</em> my complaint to man? and if <em>it were so</em>, why should not my spirit be troubled? <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Mark me, and be astonished, and lay <em>your</em> hand upon <em>your</em> mouth. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Even when I remember I am afraid, and trembling taketh hold on my flesh. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore do the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in power? <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their seed is established in their sight with them, and their offspring before their eyes. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Their houses <em>are</em> safe from fear, neither <em>is</em> the rod of God upon them. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and casteth not her calf. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the organ. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment go down to the grave. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us; for we desire not the knowledge of thy ways. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What <em>is</em> the Almighty, that we should serve him? and what profit should we have, if we pray unto him? <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lo, their good <em>is</em> not in their hand: the counsel of the wicked is far from me. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How oft is the candle of the wicked put out! and <em>how oft</em> cometh their destruction upon them! <em>God</em> distributeth sorrows in his anger. <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They are as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm carrieth away. <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God layeth up his iniquity for his children: he rewardeth him, and he shall know <em>it</em>. <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drink of the wrath of the Almighty. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For what pleasure <em>hath</em> he in his house after him, when the number of his months is cut off in the midst? <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Shall <em>any</em> teach God knowledge? seeing he judgeth those that are high. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> One dieth in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His breasts are full of milk, and his bones are moistened with marrow. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And another dieth in the bitterness of his soul, and never eateth with pleasure. <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They shall lie down alike in the dust, and the worms shall cover them. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Behold, I know your thoughts, and the devices <em>which</em> ye wrongfully imagine against me. <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For ye say, Where <em>is</em> the house of the prince? and where <em>are</em> the dwelling places of the wicked? <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Have ye not asked them that go by the way? and do ye not know their tokens, <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> That the wicked is reserved to the day of destruction? they shall be brought forth to the day of wrath. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall repay him <em>what</em> he hath done? <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Yet shall he be brought to the grave, and shall remain in the tomb. <a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The clods of the valley shall be sweet unto him, and every man shall draw after him, as <em>there are</em> innumerable before him. <a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> How then comfort ye me in vain, seeing in your answers there remaineth falsehood?

</body>
</html>