<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 42</h2>

<a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered the LORD, and said, <a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I know that thou canst do every <em>thing</em>, and <em>that</em> no thought can be withholden from thee. <a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who <em>is</em> he that hideth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. <a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. <a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye seeth thee. <a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherefore I abhor <em>myself</em>, and repent in dust and ashes. <a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it was <em>so</em>, that after the LORD had spoken these words unto Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me <em>the thing that is</em> right, as my servant Job <em>hath</em>. <a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you <em>after your</em> folly, in that ye have not spoken of me <em>the thing which is</em> right, like my servant Job. <a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite <em>and</em> Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the LORD commanded them: the LORD also accepted Job. <a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the LORD turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends: also the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before. <a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned him, and comforted him over all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him: every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold. <a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So the LORD blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning: for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses. <a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He had also seven sons and three daughters. <a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Kerenhappuch. <a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And in all the land were no women found <em>so</em> fair as the daughters of Job: and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren. <a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, <em>even</em> four generations. <a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So Job died, <em>being</em> old and full of days.

</body>
</html>