<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 29</h2>

<a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Job continued his parable, and said, <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Oh that I were as <em>in</em> months past, as <em>in</em> the days <em>when</em> God preserved me; <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When his candle shined upon my head, <em>and when</em> by his light I walked <em>through</em> darkness; <a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of God <em>was</em> upon my tabernacle; <a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When the Almighty <em>was</em> yet with me, <em>when</em> my children <em>were</em> about me; <a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When I washed my steps with butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil; <a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When I went out to the gate through the city, <em>when</em> I prepared my seat in the street! <a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The young men saw me, and hid themselves: and the aged arose, <em>and</em> stood up. <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The princes refrained talking, and laid <em>their</em> hand on their mouth. <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The nobles held their peace, and their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth. <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When the ear heard <em>me</em>, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw <em>me</em>, it gave witness to me: <a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and <em>him that had</em> none to help him. <a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me: and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment <em>was</em> as a robe and a diadem. <a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I was eyes to the blind, and feet <em>was</em> I to the lame. <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I <em>was</em> a father to the poor: and the cause <em>which</em> I knew not I searched out. <a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth. <a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then I said, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply <em>my</em> days as the sand. <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My root <em>was</em> spread out by the waters, and the dew lay all night upon my branch. <a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My glory <em>was</em> fresh in me, and my bow was renewed in my hand. <a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Unto me <em>men</em> gave ear, and waited, and kept silence at my counsel. <a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> After my words they spake not again; and my speech dropped upon them. <a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they waited for me as for the rain; and they opened their mouth wide <em>as</em> for the latter rain. <a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> <em>If</em> I laughed on them, they believed <em>it</em> not; and the light of my countenance they cast not down. <a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I chose out their way, and sat chief, and dwelt as a king in the army, as one <em>that</em> comforteth the mourners.

</body>
</html>