<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 33</h2>

<a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speeches, and hearken to all my words. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Behold, now I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spoken in my mouth. <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My words <em>shall be of</em> the uprightness of my heart: and my lips shall utter knowledge clearly. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou canst answer me, set <em>thy words</em> in order before me, stand up. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, I <em>am</em> according to thy wish in God's stead: I also am formed out of the clay. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, neither shall my hand be heavy upon thee. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Surely thou hast spoken in mine hearing, and I have heard the voice of <em>thy</em> words, <em>saying</em>, <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I am clean without transgression, I <em>am</em> innocent; neither <em>is there</em> iniquity in me. <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, he findeth occasions against me, he counteth me for his enemy, <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my paths. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, <em>in</em> this thou art not just: I will answer thee, that God is greater than man. <a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of any of his matters. <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For God speaketh once, yea twice, <em>yet man</em> perceiveth it not. <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumberings upon the bed; <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then he openeth the ears of men, and sealeth their instruction, <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> That he may withdraw man <em>from his</em> purpose, and hide pride from man. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword. <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and the multitude of his bones with strong <em>pain</em>: <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So that his life abhorreth bread, and his soul dainty meat. <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen; and his bones <em>that</em> were not seen stick out. <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yea, his soul draweth near unto the grave, and his life to the destroyers. <a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If there be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one among a thousand, to shew unto man his uprightness: <a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then he is gracious unto him, and saith, Deliver him from going down to the pit: I have found a ransom. <a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> His flesh shall be fresher than a child's: he shall return to the days of his youth: <a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He shall pray unto God, and he will be favourable unto him: and he shall see his face with joy: for he will render unto man his righteousness. <a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He looketh upon men, and <em>if any</em> say, I have sinned, and perverted <em>that which was</em> right, and it profited me not; <a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He will deliver his soul from going into the pit, and his life shall see the light. <a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Lo, all these <em>things</em> worketh God oftentimes with man, <a id="c33_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> To bring back his soul from the pit, to be enlightened with the light of the living. <a id="c33_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I will speak. <a id="c33_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If thou hast any thing to say, answer me: speak, for I desire to justify thee. <a id="c33_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If not, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I shall teach thee wisdom.

</body>
</html>