<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 31</h2>

<a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I made a covenant with mine eyes; why then should I think upon a maid? <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For what portion of God <em>is there</em> from above? and <em>what</em> inheritance of the Almighty from on high? <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> <em>Is</em> not destruction to the wicked? and a strange <em>punishment</em> to the workers of iniquity? <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Doth not he see my ways, and count all my steps? <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If I have walked with vanity, or if my foot hath hasted to deceit; <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let me be weighed in an even balance, that God may know mine integrity. <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If my step hath turned out of the way, and mine heart walked after mine eyes, and if any blot hath cleaved to mine hands; <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>Then</em> let me sow, and let another eat; yea, let my offspring be rooted out. <a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If mine heart have been deceived by a woman, or <em>if</em> I have laid wait at my neighbour's door; <a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>Then</em> let my wife grind unto another, and let others bow down upon her. <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For this <em>is</em> an heinous crime; yea, it <em>is</em> an iniquity <em>to be punished by</em> the judges. <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For it <em>is</em> a fire <em>that</em> consumeth to destruction, and would root out all mine increase. <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my maidservant, when they contended with me; <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What then shall I do when God riseth up? and when he visiteth, what shall I answer him? <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not one fashion us in the womb? <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If I have withheld the poor from <em>their</em> desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail; <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Or have eaten my morsel myself alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof; <a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (For from my youth he was brought up with me, as <em>with</em> a father, and I have guided her from my mother's womb;) <a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If I have seen any perish for want of clothing, or any poor without covering; <a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If his loins have not blessed me, and <em>if</em> he were <em>not</em> warmed with the fleece of my sheep; <a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, when I saw my help in the gate: <a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> <em>Then</em> let mine arm fall from my shoulder blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone. <a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For destruction <em>from</em> God <em>was</em> a terror to me, and by reason of his highness I could not endure. <a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I have made gold my hope, or have said to the fine gold, <em>Thou art</em> my confidence; <a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If I rejoiced because my wealth <em>was</em> great, and because mine hand had gotten much; <a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If I beheld the sun when it shined, or the moon walking <em>in</em> brightness; <a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And my heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand: <a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> This also <em>were</em> an iniquity <em>to be punished by</em> the judge: for I should have denied the God <em>that is</em> above. <a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> If I rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, or lifted up myself when evil found him: <a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Neither have I suffered my mouth to sin by wishing a curse to his soul. <a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If the men of my tabernacle said not, Oh that we had of his flesh! we cannot be satisfied. <a id="c31_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The stranger did not lodge in the street: <em>but</em> I opened my doors to the traveller. <a id="c31_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding mine iniquity in my bosom: <a id="c31_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Did I fear a great multitude, or did the contempt of families terrify me, that I kept silence, <em>and</em> went not out of the door? <a id="c31_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Oh that one would hear me! behold, my desire <em>is, that</em> the Almighty would answer me, and <em>that</em> mine adversary had written a book. <a id="c31_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Surely I would take it upon my shoulder, <em>and</em> bind it <em>as</em> a crown to me. <a id="c31_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince would I go near unto him. <a id="c31_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> If my land cry against me, or that the furrows likewise thereof complain; <a id="c31_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, or have caused the owners thereof to lose their life: <a id="c31_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Let thistles grow instead of wheat, and cockle instead of barley. The words of Job are ended.

</body>
</html>