<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 23</h2>

<a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Even to day <em>is</em> my complaint bitter: my stroke is heavier than my groaning. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Oh that I knew where I might find him! <em>that</em> I might come <em>even</em> to his seat! <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I would order <em>my</em> cause before him, and fill my mouth with arguments. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I would know the words <em>which</em> he would answer me, and understand what he would say unto me. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Will he plead against me with <em>his</em> great power? No; but he would put <em>strength</em> in me. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There the righteous might dispute with him; so should I be delivered for ever from my judge. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, I go forward, but he <em>is</em> not <em>there</em>; and backward, but I cannot perceive him: <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> On the left hand, where he doth work, but I cannot behold <em>him</em>: he hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot see <em>him</em>: <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But he knoweth the way that I take: <em>when</em> he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not declined. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips; I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary <em>food</em>. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he <em>is</em> in one <em>mind</em>, and who can turn him? and <em>what</em> his soul desireth, even <em>that</em> he doeth. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he performeth <em>the thing that is</em> appointed for me: and many such <em>things are</em> with him. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore am I troubled at his presence: when I consider, I am afraid of him. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For God maketh my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me: <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because I was not cut off before the darkness, <em>neither</em> hath he covered the darkness from my face.

</body>
</html>