<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 40</h2>

<a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover the LORD answered Job, and said, <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct <em>him</em>? he that reproveth God, let him answer it. <a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Job answered the LORD, and said, <a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, I am vile; what shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth. <a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Once have I spoken; but I will not answer: yea, twice; but I will proceed no further. <a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then answered the LORD unto Job out of the whirlwind, and said, <a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gird up thy loins now like a man: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. <a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wilt thou also disannul my judgment? wilt thou condemn me, that thou mayest be righteous? <a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hast thou an arm like God? or canst thou thunder with a voice like him? <a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Deck thyself now <em>with</em> majesty and excellency; and array thyself with glory and beauty. <a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath: and behold every one <em>that is</em> proud, and abase him. <a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Look on every one <em>that is</em> proud, <em>and</em> bring him low; and tread down the wicked in their place. <a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hide them in the dust together; <em>and</em> bind their faces in secret. <a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then will I also confess unto thee that thine own right hand can save thee. <a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold now behemoth, which I made with thee; he eateth grass as an ox. <a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lo now, his strength <em>is</em> in his loins, and his force <em>is</em> in the navel of his belly. <a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He moveth his tail like a cedar: the sinews of his stones are wrapped together. <a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His bones <em>are as</em> strong pieces of brass; his bones <em>are</em> like bars of iron. <a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He <em>is</em> the chief of the ways of God: he that made him can make his sword to approach <em>unto him</em>. <a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Surely the mountains bring him forth food, where all the beasts of the field play. <a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He lieth under the shady trees, in the covert of the reed, and fens. <a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The shady trees cover him <em>with</em> their shadow; the willows of the brook compass him about. <a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Behold, he drinketh up a river, <em>and</em> hasteth not: he trusteth that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth. <a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He taketh it with his eyes: <em>his</em> nose pierceth through snares.

</body>
</html>