<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 12</h2>

<a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answered and said, <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> No doubt but ye <em>are</em> the people, and wisdom shall die with you. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But I have understanding as well as you; I <em>am</em> not inferior to you: yea, who knoweth not such things as these? <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I am <em>as</em> one mocked of his neighbour, who calleth upon God, and he answereth him: the just upright <em>man is</em> laughed to scorn. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He that is ready to slip with <em>his</em> feet <em>is as</em> a lamp despised in the thought of him that is at ease. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The tabernacles of robbers prosper, and they that provoke God are secure; into whose hand God bringeth <em>abundantly</em>. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee: <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee: and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of the LORD hath wrought this? <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In whose hand <em>is</em> the soul of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Doth not the ear try words? and the mouth taste his meat? <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> With the ancient <em>is</em> wisdom; and in length of days understanding. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With him <em>is</em> wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and understanding. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again: he shutteth up a man, and there can be no opening. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up: also he sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With him <em>is</em> strength and wisdom: the deceived and the deceiver <em>are</em> his. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He leadeth counsellors away spoiled, and maketh the judges fools. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He looseth the bond of kings, and girdeth their loins with a girdle. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He leadeth princes away spoiled, and overthroweth the mighty. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He removeth away the speech of the trusty, and taketh away the understanding of the aged. <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He poureth contempt upon princes, and weakeneth the strength of the mighty. <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth out to light the shadow of death. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them: he enlargeth the nations, and straiteneth them <em>again</em>. <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He taketh away the heart of the chief of the people of the earth, and causeth them to wander in a wilderness <em>where there is</em> no way. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them to stagger like <em>a</em> drunken <em>man</em>.

</body>
</html>