<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 35</h2>

<a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Elihu spake moreover, and said, <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thinkest thou this to be right, <em>that</em> thou saidst, My righteousness <em>is</em> more than God's? <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou saidst, What advantage will it be unto thee? <em>and</em>, What profit shall I have, <em>if I be cleansed</em> from my sin? <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will answer thee, and thy companions with thee. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Look unto the heavens, and see; and behold the clouds <em>which</em> are higher than thou. <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him? or <em>if</em> thy transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him? <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If thou be righteous, what givest thou him? or what receiveth he of thine hand? <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy wickedness <em>may hurt</em> a man as thou <em>art</em>; and thy righteousness <em>may profit</em> the son of man. <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By reason of the multitude of oppressions they make <em>the oppressed</em> to cry: they cry out by reason of the arm of the mighty. <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But none saith, Where <em>is</em> God my maker, who giveth songs in the night; <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and maketh us wiser than the fowls of heaven? <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There they cry, but none giveth answer, because of the pride of evil men. <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely God will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty regard it. <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him, <em>yet</em> judgment <em>is</em> before him; therefore trust thou in him. <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But now, because <em>it is</em> not <em>so</em>, he hath visited in his anger; yet he knoweth <em>it</em> not in great extremity: <a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore doth Job open his mouth in vain; he multiplieth words without knowledge.

</body>
</html>