<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 19</h2>

<a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long will ye vex my soul, and break me in pieces with words? <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> These ten times have ye reproached me: ye are not ashamed <em>that</em> ye make yourselves strange to me. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And be it indeed <em>that</em> I have erred, mine error remaineth with myself. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If indeed ye will magnify <em>yourselves</em> against me, and plead against me my reproach: <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Know now that God hath overthrown me, and hath compassed me with his net. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but <em>there is</em> no judgment. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set darkness in my paths. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He hath stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown <em>from</em> my head. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope hath he removed like a tree. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he counteth me unto him as <em>one of</em> his enemies. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His troops come together, and raise up their way against me, and encamp round about my tabernacle. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He hath put my brethren far from me, and mine acquaintance are verily estranged from me. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten me. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a stranger: I am an alien in their sight. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I called my servant, and he gave <em>me</em> no answer; I intreated him with my mouth. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My breath is strange to my wife, though I intreated for the children's <em>sake</em> of mine own body. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yea, young children despised me; I arose, and they spake against me. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All my inward friends abhorred me: and they whom I loved are turned against me. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped with the skin of my teeth. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the hand of God hath touched me. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my flesh? <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were printed in a book! <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock for ever! <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I know <em>that</em> my redeemer liveth, and <em>that</em> he shall stand at the latter <em>day</em> upon the earth: <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And <em>though</em> after my skin <em>worms</em> destroy this <em>body</em>, yet in my flesh shall I see God: <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; <em>though</em> my reins be consumed within me. <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But ye should say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the matter is found in me? <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Be ye afraid of the sword: for wrath <em>bringeth</em> the punishments of the sword, that ye may know <em>there is</em> a judgment.

</body>
</html>