<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 32</h2>

<a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he <em>was</em> righteous in his own eyes. <a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God. <a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and <em>yet</em> had condemned Job. <a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they <em>were</em> elder than he. <a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When Elihu saw that <em>there was</em> no answer in the mouth of <em>these</em> three men, then his wrath was kindled. <a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I <em>am</em> young, and ye <em>are</em> very old; wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew you mine opinion. <a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom. <a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But <em>there is</em> a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding. <a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Great men are not <em>always</em> wise: neither do the aged understand judgment. <a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion. <a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasons, whilst ye searched out what to say. <a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, <em>there was</em> none of you that convinced Job, <em>or</em> that answered his words: <a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Lest ye should say, We have found out wisdom: God thrusteth him down, not man. <a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now he hath not directed <em>his</em> words against me: neither will I answer him with your speeches. <a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They were amazed, they answered no more: they left off speaking. <a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When I had waited, (for they spake not, but stood still, <em>and</em> answered no more;) <a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> <em>I said</em>, I will answer also my part, I also will shew mine opinion. <a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me. <a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, my belly <em>is</em> as wine <em>which</em> hath no vent; it is ready to burst like new bottles. <a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I will speak, that I may be refreshed: I will open my lips and answer. <a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let me not, I pray you, accept any man's person, neither let me give flattering titles unto man. <a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I know not to give flattering titles; <em>in so doing</em> my maker would soon take me away.

</body>
</html>