<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 26</h2>

<a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Job answered and said, <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How hast thou helped <em>him that is</em> without power? <em>how</em> savest thou the arm <em>that hath</em> no strength? <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> How hast thou counselled <em>him that hath</em> no wisdom? and <em>how</em> hast thou plentifully declared the thing as it is? <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To whom hast thou uttered words? and whose spirit came from thee? <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Dead <em>things</em> are formed from under the waters, and the inhabitants thereof. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hell <em>is</em> naked before him, and destruction hath no covering. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, <em>and</em> hangeth the earth upon nothing. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; and the cloud is not rent under them. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He holdeth back the face of his throne, <em>and</em> spreadeth his cloud upon it. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He hath compassed the waters with bounds, until the day and night come to an end. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He divideth the sea with his power, and by his understanding he smiteth through the proud. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> By his spirit he hath garnished the heavens; his hand hath formed the crooked serpent. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Lo, these <em>are</em> parts of his ways: but how little a portion is heard of him? but the thunder of his power who can understand?

</body>
</html>