<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said, <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Should a wise man utter vain knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind? <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewith he can do no good? <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest prayer before God. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the tongue of the crafty. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I: yea, thine own lips testify against thee. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>Art</em> thou the first man <em>that</em> was born? or wast thou made before the hills? <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dost thou restrain wisdom to thyself? <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What knowest thou, that we know not? <em>what</em> understandest thou, which <em>is</em> not in us? <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With us <em>are</em> both the grayheaded and very aged men, much elder than thy father. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>Are</em> the consolations of God small with thee? is there any secret thing with thee? <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what do thy eyes wink at, <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That thou turnest thy spirit against God, and lettest <em>such</em> words go out of thy mouth? <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What <em>is</em> man, that he should be clean? and <em>he which is</em> born of a woman, that he should be righteous? <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the heavens are not clean in his sight. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> How much more abominable and filthy <em>is</em> man, which drinketh iniquity like water? <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will shew thee, hear me; and that <em>which</em> I have seen I will declare; <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Which wise men have told from their fathers, and have not hid <em>it</em>: <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Unto whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger passed among them. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The wicked man travaileth with pain all <em>his</em> days, and the number of years is hidden to the oppressor. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A dreadful sound <em>is</em> in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and he is waited for of the sword. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He wandereth abroad for bread, <em>saying</em>, Where <em>is it</em>? he knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid; they shall prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he stretcheth out his hand against God, and strengtheneth himself against the Almighty. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He runneth upon him, <em>even</em> on <em>his</em> neck, upon the thick bosses of his bucklers: <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Because he covereth his face with his fatness, and maketh collops of fat on <em>his</em> flanks. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he dwelleth in desolate cities, <em>and</em> in houses which no man inhabiteth, which are ready to become heaps. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth. <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his branches, and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let not him that is deceived trust in vanity: for vanity shall be his recompence. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It shall be accomplished before his time, and his branch shall not be green. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast off his flower as the olive. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For the congregation of hypocrites <em>shall be</em> desolate, and fire shall consume the tabernacles of bribery. <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity, and their belly prepareth deceit.

</body>
</html>