<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 24</h2>

<a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do they that know him not see his days? <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> <em>Some</em> remove the landmarks; they violently take away flocks, and feed <em>thereof</em>. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow's ox for a pledge. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They turn the needy out of the way: the poor of the earth hide themselves together. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, <em>as</em> wild asses in the desert, go they forth to their work; rising betimes for a prey: the wilderness <em>yieldeth</em> food for them <em>and</em> for <em>their</em> children. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They reap <em>every one</em> his corn in the field: and they gather the vintage of the wicked. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that <em>they have</em> no covering in the cold. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for want of a shelter. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of the poor. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They cause <em>him</em> to go naked without clothing, and they take away the sheaf <em>from</em> the hungry; <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>Which</em> make oil within their walls, <em>and</em> tread <em>their</em> winepresses, and suffer thirst. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded crieth out: yet God layeth not folly <em>to them</em>. <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They are of those that rebel against the light; they know not the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The murderer rising with the light killeth the poor and needy, and in the night is as a thief. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me: and disguiseth <em>his</em> face. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In the dark they dig through houses, <em>which</em> they had marked for themselves in the daytime: they know not the light. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the morning <em>is</em> to them even as the shadow of death: if <em>one</em> know <em>them, they are in</em> the terrors of the shadow of death. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He <em>is</em> swift as the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth: he beholdeth not the way of the vineyards. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Drought and heat consume the snow waters: <em>so doth</em> the grave <em>those which</em> have sinned. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him; he shall be no more remembered; and wickedness shall be broken as a tree. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He evil entreateth the barren <em>that</em> beareth not: and doeth not good to the widow. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He draweth also the mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no <em>man</em> is sure of life. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> <em>Though</em> it be given him <em>to be</em> in safety, whereon he resteth; yet his eyes <em>are</em> upon their ways. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They are exalted for a little while, but are gone and brought low; they are taken out of the way as all <em>other</em>, and cut off as the tops of the ears of corn. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And if <em>it be</em> not <em>so</em> now, who will make me a liar, and make my speech nothing worth?

</body>
</html>