<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long wilt thou speak these <em>things</em>? and <em>how long shall</em> the words of thy mouth <em>be like</em> a strong wind? <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Doth God pervert judgment? or doth the Almighty pervert justice? <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If thy children have sinned against him, and he have cast them away for their transgression; <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou wouldest seek unto God betimes, and make thy supplication to the Almighty; <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If thou <em>wert</em> pure and upright; surely now he would awake for thee, and make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly increase. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For enquire, I pray thee, of the former age, and prepare thyself to the search of their fathers: <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (For we <em>are but of</em> yesterday, and know nothing, because our days upon earth <em>are</em> a shadow:) <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Shall not they teach thee, <em>and</em> tell thee, and utter words out of their heart? <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Can the rush grow up without mire? can the flag grow without water? <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whilst it <em>is</em> yet in his greenness, <em>and</em> not cut down, it withereth before any <em>other</em> herb. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So <em>are</em> the paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite's hope shall perish: <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust <em>shall be</em> a spider's web. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand: he shall hold it fast, but it shall not endure. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He <em>is</em> green before the sun, and his branch shooteth forth in his garden. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His roots are wrapped about the heap, <em>and</em> seeth the place of stones. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If he destroy him from his place, then <em>it</em> shall deny him, <em>saying</em>, I have not seen thee. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, this <em>is</em> the joy of his way, and out of the earth shall others grow. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, God will not cast away a perfect <em>man</em>, neither will he help the evil doers: <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Till he fill thy mouth with laughing, and thy lips with rejoicing. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame; and the dwelling place of the wicked shall come to nought.

</body>
</html>