<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 37</h2>

<a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At this also my heart trembleth, and is moved out of his place. <a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear attentively the noise of his voice, and the sound <em>that</em> goeth out of his mouth. <a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He directeth it under the whole heaven, and his lightning unto the ends of the earth. <a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> After it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of his excellency; and he will not stay them when his voice is heard. <a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God thundereth marvellously with his voice; great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend. <a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For he saith to the snow, Be thou <em>on</em> the earth; likewise to the small rain, and to the great rain of his strength. <a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He sealeth up the hand of every man; that all men may know his work. <a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then the beasts go into dens, and remain in their places. <a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Out of the south cometh the whirlwind: and cold out of the north. <a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> By the breath of God frost is given: and the breadth of the waters is straitened. <a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Also by watering he wearieth the thick cloud: he scattereth his bright cloud: <a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it is turned round about by his counsels: that they may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the world in the earth. <a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He causeth it to come, whether for correction, or for his land, or for mercy. <a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Hearken unto this, O Job: stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God. <a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Dost thou know when God disposed them, and caused the light of his cloud to shine? <a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge? <a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How thy garments <em>are</em> warm, when he quieteth the earth by the south <em>wind</em>? <a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Hast thou with him spread out the sky, <em>which is</em> strong, <em>and</em> as a molten looking glass? <a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Teach us what we shall say unto him; <em>for</em> we cannot order <em>our speech</em> by reason of darkness. <a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Shall it be told him that I speak? if a man speak, surely he shall be swallowed up. <a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And now <em>men</em> see not the bright light which <em>is</em> in the clouds: but the wind passeth, and cleanseth them. <a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Fair weather cometh out of the north: with God <em>is</em> terrible majesty. <a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> <em>Touching</em> the Almighty, we cannot find him out: <em>he is</em> excellent in power, and in judgment, and in plenty of justice: he will not afflict. <a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Men do therefore fear him: he respecteth not any <em>that are</em> wise of heart.

</body>
</html>