<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this opened Job his mouth, and cursed his day. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Job spake, and said, <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night <em>in which</em> it was said, There is a man child conceived. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let that day be darkness; let not God regard it from above, neither let the light shine upon it. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let darkness and the shadow of death stain it; let a cloud dwell upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As <em>for</em> that night, let darkness seize upon it; let it not be joined unto the days of the year, let it not come into the number of the months. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, let that night be solitary, let no joyful voice come therein. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let them curse it that curse the day, who are ready to raise up their mourning. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let the stars of the twilight thereof be dark; let it look for light, but <em>have</em> none; neither let it see the dawning of the day: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because it shut not up the doors of my <em>mother's</em> womb, nor hid sorrow from mine eyes. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why died I not from the womb? <em>why</em> did I <em>not</em> give up the ghost when I came out of the belly? <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why did the knees prevent me? or why the breasts that I should suck? <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For now should I have lain still and been quiet, I should have slept: then had I been at rest, <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> With kings and counsellors of the earth, which built desolate places for themselves; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Or with princes that had gold, who filled their houses with silver: <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Or as an hidden untimely birth I had not been; as infants <em>which</em> never saw light. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There the wicked cease <em>from</em> troubling; and there the weary be at rest. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> <em>There</em> the prisoners rest together; they hear not the voice of the oppressor. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The small and great are there; and the servant <em>is</em> free from his master. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery, and life unto the bitter <em>in</em> soul; <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Which long for death, but it <em>cometh</em> not; and dig for it more than for hid treasures; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Which rejoice exceedingly, <em>and</em> are glad, when they can find the grave? <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> <em>Why is light given</em> to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in? <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For my sighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured out like the waters. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that which I was afraid of is come unto me. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I was not in safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet; yet trouble came.

</body>
</html>