<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 41</h2>

<a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Canst thou draw out leviathan with an hook? or his tongue with a cord <em>which</em> thou lettest down? <a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Canst thou put an hook into his nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn? <a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Will he make many supplications unto thee? will he speak soft <em>words</em> unto thee? <a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will he make a covenant with thee? wilt thou take him for a servant for ever? <a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wilt thou play with him as <em>with</em> a bird? or wilt thou bind him for thy maidens? <a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Shall the companions make a banquet of him? shall they part him among the merchants? <a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish spears? <a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lay thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more. <a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the hope of him is in vain: shall not <em>one</em> be cast down even at the sight of him? <a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> None <em>is so</em> fierce that dare stir him up: who then is able to stand before me? <a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who hath prevented me, that I should repay <em>him? whatsoever is</em> under the whole heaven is mine. <a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will not conceal his parts, nor his power, nor his comely proportion. <a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who can discover the face of his garment? <em>or</em> who can come <em>to him</em> with his double bridle? <a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who can open the doors of his face? his teeth <em>are</em> terrible round about. <a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> <em>His</em> scales <em>are his</em> pride, shut up together <em>as with</em> a close seal. <a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> One is so near to another, that no air can come between them. <a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They are joined one to another, they stick together, that they cannot be sundered. <a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By his neesings a light doth shine, and his eyes <em>are</em> like the eyelids of the morning. <a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Out of his mouth go burning lamps, <em>and</em> sparks of fire leap out. <a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Out of his nostrils goeth smoke, as <em>out</em> of a seething pot or caldron. <a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His breath kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth. <a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In his neck remaineth strength, and sorrow is turned into joy before him. <a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The flakes of his flesh are joined together: they are firm in themselves; they cannot be moved. <a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His heart is as firm as a stone; yea, as hard as a piece of the nether <em>millstone</em>. <a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When he raiseth up himself, the mighty are afraid: by reason of breakings they purify themselves. <a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold: the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon. <a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He esteemeth iron as straw, <em>and</em> brass as rotten wood. <a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The arrow cannot make him flee: slingstones are turned with him into stubble. <a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Darts are counted as stubble: he laugheth at the shaking of a spear. <a id="c41_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Sharp stones <em>are</em> under him: he spreadeth sharp pointed things upon the mire. <a id="c41_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He maketh the deep to boil like a pot: he maketh the sea like a pot of ointment. <a id="c41_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He maketh a path to shine after him; <em>one</em> would think the deep <em>to be</em> hoary. <a id="c41_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Upon earth there is not his like, who is made without fear. <a id="c41_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He beholdeth all high <em>things</em>: he <em>is</em> a king over all the children of pride.

</body>
</html>