<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 17</h2>

<a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves <em>are ready</em> for me. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> <em>Are there</em> not mockers with me? and doth not mine eye continue in their provocation? <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee; who <em>is</em> he <em>that</em> will strike hands with me? <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast hid their heart from understanding: therefore shalt thou not exalt <em>them</em>. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He that speaketh flattery to <em>his</em> friends, even the eyes of his children shall fail. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He hath made me also a byword of the people; and aforetime I was as a tabret. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members <em>are</em> as a shadow. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Upright <em>men</em> shall be astonied at this, and the innocent shall stir up himself against the hypocrite. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The righteous also shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean hands shall be stronger and stronger. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But as for you all, do ye return, and come now: for I cannot find <em>one</em> wise <em>man</em> among you. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days are past, my purposes are broken off, <em>even</em> the thoughts of my heart. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They change the night into day: the light <em>is</em> short because of darkness. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I wait, the grave <em>is</em> mine house: I have made my bed in the darkness. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have said to corruption, Thou <em>art</em> my father: to the worm, <em>Thou art</em> my mother, and my sister. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And where <em>is</em> now my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it? <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They shall go down to the bars of the pit, when <em>our</em> rest together <em>is</em> in the dust.

</body>
</html>