<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 27</h2>

<a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Job continued his parable, and said, <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> <em>As</em> God liveth, <em>who</em> hath taken away my judgment; and the Almighty, <em>who</em> hath vexed my soul; <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All the while my breath <em>is</em> in me, and the spirit of God <em>is</em> in my nostrils; <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God forbid that I should justify you: till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go: my heart shall not reproach <em>me</em> so long as I live. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let mine enemy be as the wicked, and he that riseth up against me as the unrighteous. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For what <em>is</em> the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained, when God taketh away his soul? <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will God hear his cry when trouble cometh upon him? <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Will he delight himself in the Almighty? will he always call upon God? <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will teach you by the hand of God: <em>that</em> which <em>is</em> with the Almighty will I not conceal. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, all ye yourselves have seen <em>it</em>; why then are ye thus altogether vain? <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This <em>is</em> the portion of a wicked man with God, and the heritage of oppressors, <em>which</em> they shall receive of the Almighty. <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If his children be multiplied, <em>it is</em> for the sword: and his offspring shall not be satisfied with bread. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Those that remain of him shall be buried in death: and his widows shall not weep. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare raiment as the clay; <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He may prepare <em>it</em>, but the just shall put <em>it</em> on, and the innocent shall divide the silver. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He buildeth his house as a moth, and as a booth <em>that</em> the keeper maketh. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The rich man shall lie down, but he shall not be gathered: he openeth his eyes, and he <em>is</em> not. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Terrors take hold on him as waters, a tempest stealeth him away in the night. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The east wind carrieth him away, and he departeth: and as a storm hurleth him out of his place. <a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For <em>God</em> shall cast upon him, and not spare: he would fain flee out of his hand. <a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> <em>Men</em> shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss him out of his place.

</body>
</html>