<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lo, mine eye hath seen all <em>this</em>, mine ear hath heard and understood it. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> What ye know, <em>the same</em> do I know also: I <em>am</em> not inferior unto you. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But ye <em>are</em> forgers of lies, ye <em>are</em> all physicians of no value. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your wisdom. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will ye speak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him? <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for God? <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is it good that he should search you out? or as one man mocketh another, do ye <em>so</em> mock him? <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly accept persons. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall upon you? <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Your remembrances <em>are</em> like unto ashes, your bodies to bodies of clay. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on me what <em>will</em>. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in mine hand? <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I will maintain mine own ways before him. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He also <em>shall be</em> my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come before him. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Hear diligently my speech, and my declaration with your ears. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold now, I have ordered <em>my</em> cause; I know that I shall be justified. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who <em>is</em> he <em>that</em> will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue, I shall give up the ghost. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Only do not two <em>things</em> unto me: then will I not hide myself from thee. <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Withdraw thine hand far from me: and let not thy dread make me afraid. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then call thou, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer thou me. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> How many <em>are</em> mine iniquities and sins? make me to know my transgression and my sin. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and holdest me for thine enemy? <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro? and wilt thou pursue the dry stubble? <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly unto all my paths; thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he, as a rotten thing, consumeth, as a garment that is moth eaten.

</body>
</html>