<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 22</h2>

<a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Can a man be profitable unto God, as he that is wise may be profitable unto himself? <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> <em>Is it</em> any pleasure to the Almighty, that thou art righteous? or <em>is it</em> gain <em>to him</em>, that thou makest thy ways perfect? <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? will he enter with thee into judgment? <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>Is</em> not thy wickedness great? and thine iniquities infinite? <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thou hast taken a pledge from thy brother for nought, and stripped the naked of their clothing. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, and thou hast withholden bread from the hungry. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But <em>as for</em> the mighty man, he had the earth; and the honourable man dwelt in it. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore snares <em>are</em> round about thee, and sudden fear troubleth thee; <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Or darkness, <em>that</em> thou canst not see; and abundance of waters cover thee. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> <em>Is</em> not God in the height of heaven? and behold the height of the stars, how high they are! <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou sayest, How doth God know? can he judge through the dark cloud? <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thick clouds <em>are</em> a covering to him, that he seeth not; and he walketh in the circuit of heaven. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hast thou marked the old way which wicked men have trodden? <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Which were cut down out of time, whose foundation was overflown with a flood: <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Which said unto God, Depart from us: and what can the Almighty do for them? <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yet he filled their houses with good <em>things</em>: but the counsel of the wicked is far from me. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The righteous see <em>it</em>, and are glad: and the innocent laugh them to scorn. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whereas our substance is not cut down, but the remnant of them the fire consumeth. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: thereby good shall come unto thee. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up his words in thine heart. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up, thou shalt put away iniquity far from thy tabernacles. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust, and the <em>gold</em> of Ophir as the stones of the brooks. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defence, and thou shalt have plenty of silver. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For then shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty, and shalt lift up thy face unto God. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he shall hear thee, and thou shalt pay thy vows. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee: and the light shall shine upon thy ways. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When <em>men</em> are cast down, then thou shalt say, <em>There is</em> lifting up; and he shall save the humble person. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He shall deliver the island of the innocent: and it is delivered by the pureness of thine hands.

</body>
</html>