<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 84</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 84</h2>

<a id="c84_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Gittith, A Psalm for the sons of Korah.</b> How amiable <em>are</em> thy tabernacles, O LORD of hosts! <a id="c84_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the LORD: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God. <a id="c84_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, <em>even</em> thine altars, O LORD of hosts, my King, and my God. <a id="c84_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed <em>are</em> they that dwell in thy house: they will be still praising thee. Selah. <a id="c84_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Blessed <em>is</em> the man whose strength <em>is</em> in thee; in whose heart <em>are</em> the ways <em>of them</em>. <a id="c84_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> <em>Who</em> passing through the valley of Baca make it a well; the rain also filleth the pools. <a id="c84_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They go from strength to strength, <em>every one of them</em> in Zion appeareth before God. <a id="c84_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah. <a id="c84_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, O God our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed. <a id="c84_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For a day in thy courts <em>is</em> better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. <a id="c84_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the LORD God <em>is</em> a sun and shield: the LORD will give grace and glory: no good <em>thing</em> will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. <a id="c84_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O LORD of hosts, blessed <em>is</em> the man that trusteth in thee.

</body>
</html>