<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 33</h2>

<a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous: <em>for</em> praise is comely for the upright. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Praise the LORD with harp: sing unto him with the psaltery <em>and</em> an instrument of ten strings. <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the word of the LORD <em>is</em> right; and all his works <em>are done</em> in truth. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the goodness of the LORD. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth up the depth in storehouses. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he spake, and it was <em>done</em>; he commanded, and it stood fast. <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The LORD bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought: he maketh the devices of the people of none effect. <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed <em>is</em> the nation whose God <em>is</em> the LORD; <em>and</em> the people <em>whom</em> he hath chosen for his own inheritance. <a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The LORD looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men. <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth. <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He fashioneth their hearts alike; he considereth all their works. <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man is not delivered by much strength. <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> An horse <em>is</em> a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver <em>any</em> by his great strength. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, the eye of the LORD <em>is</em> upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy; <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine. <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Our soul waiteth for the LORD: he <em>is</em> our help and our shield. <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name. <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we hope in thee.

</body>
</html>