<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 139</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 139</h2>

<a id="c139_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.</b> O LORD, thou hast searched me, and known <em>me</em>. <a id="c139_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off. <a id="c139_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted <em>with</em> all my ways. <a id="c139_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For <em>there is</em> not a word in my tongue, <em>but</em>, lo, O LORD, thou knowest it altogether. <a id="c139_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me. <a id="c139_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> <em>Such</em> knowledge <em>is</em> too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot <em>attain</em> unto it. <a id="c139_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence? <a id="c139_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If I ascend up into heaven, thou <em>art</em> there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou <em>art there</em>. <a id="c139_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>If</em> I take the wings of the morning, <em>and</em> dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; <a id="c139_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. <a id="c139_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me. <a id="c139_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light <em>are</em> both alike <em>to thee</em>. <a id="c139_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. <a id="c139_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will praise thee; for I am fearfully <em>and</em> wonderfully made: marvellous <em>are</em> thy works; and <em>that</em> my soul knoweth right well. <a id="c139_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, <em>and</em> curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. <a id="c139_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all <em>my members</em> were written, <em>which</em> in continuance were fashioned, when <em>as yet there was</em> none of them. <a id="c139_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is the sum of them! <a id="c139_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> <em>If</em> I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee. <a id="c139_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men. <a id="c139_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For they speak against thee wickedly, <em>and</em> thine enemies take <em>thy name</em> in vain. <a id="c139_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee? <a id="c139_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine enemies. <a id="c139_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts: <a id="c139_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And see if <em>there be any</em> wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.

</body>
</html>