<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 42</h2>

<a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, Maschil, for the sons of Korah.</b> As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God. <a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God? <a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where <em>is</em> thy God? <a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When I remember these <em>things</em>, I pour out my soul in me: for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday. <a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and <em>why</em> art thou disquieted in me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him <em>for</em> the help of his countenance. <a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the hill Mizar. <a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me. <a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>Yet</em> the LORD will command his lovingkindness in the daytime, and in the night his song <em>shall be</em> with me, <em>and</em> my prayer unto the God of my life. <a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? <a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>As</em> with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while they say daily unto me, Where <em>is</em> thy God? <a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, <em>who is</em> the health of my countenance, and my God.

</body>
</html>