<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 91</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 91</h2>

<a id="c91_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. <a id="c91_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will say of the LORD, <em>He is</em> my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust. <a id="c91_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, <em>and</em> from the noisome pestilence. <a id="c91_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth <em>shall be thy</em> shield and buckler. <a id="c91_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; <em>nor</em> for the arrow <em>that</em> flieth by day; <a id="c91_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> <em>Nor</em> for the pestilence <em>that</em> walketh in darkness; <em>nor</em> for the destruction <em>that</em> wasteth at noonday. <a id="c91_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; <em>but</em> it shall not come nigh thee. <a id="c91_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. <a id="c91_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because thou hast made the LORD, <em>which is</em> my refuge, <em>even</em> the most High, thy habitation; <a id="c91_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling. <a id="c91_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways. <a id="c91_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They shall bear thee up in <em>their</em> hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. <a id="c91_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet. <a id="c91_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name. <a id="c91_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I <em>will be</em> with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him. <a id="c91_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.

</body>
</html>