<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 96</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 96</h2>

<a id="c96_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O sing unto the LORD a new song: sing unto the LORD, all the earth. <a id="c96_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing unto the LORD, bless his name; shew forth his salvation from day to day. <a id="c96_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people. <a id="c96_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the LORD <em>is</em> great, and greatly to be praised: he <em>is</em> to be feared above all gods. <a id="c96_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For all the gods of the nations <em>are</em> idols: but the LORD made the heavens. <a id="c96_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Honour and majesty <em>are</em> before him: strength and beauty <em>are</em> in his sanctuary. <a id="c96_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Give unto the LORD, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto the LORD glory and strength. <a id="c96_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Give unto the LORD the glory <em>due unto</em> his name: bring an offering, and come into his courts. <a id="c96_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness: fear before him, all the earth. <a id="c96_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say among the heathen <em>that</em> the LORD reigneth: the world also shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the people righteously. <a id="c96_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof. <a id="c96_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let the field be joyful, and all that <em>is</em> therein: then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice <a id="c96_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Before the LORD: for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with his truth.

</body>
</html>