<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 59</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 59</h2>

<a id="c59_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, Altaschith, Michtam of David; when Saul sent, and they watched the house to kill him.</b> Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against me. <a id="c59_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men. <a id="c59_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me; not <em>for</em> my transgression, nor <em>for</em> my sin, O LORD. <a id="c59_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They run and prepare themselves without <em>my</em> fault: awake to help me, and behold. <a id="c59_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah. <a id="c59_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city. <a id="c59_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords <em>are</em> in their lips: for who, <em>say they</em>, doth hear? <a id="c59_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the heathen in derision. <a id="c59_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>Because of</em> his strength will I wait upon thee: for God <em>is</em> my defence. <a id="c59_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see <em>my desire</em> upon mine enemies. <a id="c59_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord our shield. <a id="c59_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> <em>For</em> the sin of their mouth <em>and</em> the words of their lips let them even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying <em>which</em> they speak. <a id="c59_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Consume <em>them</em> in wrath, consume <em>them</em>, that they <em>may</em> not <em>be</em>: and let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth. Selah. <a id="c59_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And at evening let them return; <em>and</em> let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city. <a id="c59_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied. <a id="c59_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble. <a id="c59_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God <em>is</em> my defence, <em>and</em> the God of my mercy.

</body>
</html>