<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 105</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 105</h2>

<a id="c105_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O give thanks unto the LORD; call upon his name: make known his deeds among the people. <a id="c105_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him: talk ye of all his wondrous works. <a id="c105_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the LORD. <a id="c105_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Seek the LORD, and his strength: seek his face evermore. <a id="c105_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Remember his marvellous works that he hath done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth; <a id="c105_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye children of Jacob his chosen. <a id="c105_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He <em>is</em> the LORD our God: his judgments <em>are</em> in all the earth. <a id="c105_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath remembered his covenant for ever, the word <em>which</em> he commanded to a thousand generations. <a id="c105_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Which <em>covenant</em> he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac; <a id="c105_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law, <em>and</em> to Israel <em>for</em> an everlasting covenant: <a id="c105_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance: <a id="c105_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they were <em>but</em> a few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it. <a id="c105_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When they went from one nation to another, from <em>one</em> kingdom to another people; <a id="c105_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes; <a id="c105_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> <em>Saying</em>, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm. <a id="c105_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the whole staff of bread. <a id="c105_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He sent a man before them, <em>even</em> Joseph, <em>who</em> was sold for a servant: <a id="c105_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron: <a id="c105_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Until the time that his word came: the word of the LORD tried him. <a id="c105_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The king sent and loosed him; <em>even</em> the ruler of the people, and let him go free. <a id="c105_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance: <a id="c105_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom. <a id="c105_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. <a id="c105_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies. <a id="c105_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants. <a id="c105_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He sent Moses his servant; <em>and</em> Aaron whom he had chosen. <a id="c105_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham. <a id="c105_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word. <a id="c105_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish. <a id="c105_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings. <a id="c105_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, <em>and</em> lice in all their coasts. <a id="c105_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He gave them hail for rain, <em>and</em> flaming fire in their land. <a id="c105_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the trees of their coasts. <a id="c105_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that without number, <a id="c105_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground. <a id="c105_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength. <a id="c105_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and <em>there was</em> not one feeble <em>person</em> among their tribes. <a id="c105_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them. <a id="c105_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night. <a id="c105_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> <em>The people</em> asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. <a id="c105_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places <em>like</em> a river. <a id="c105_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> For he remembered his holy promise, <em>and</em> Abraham his servant. <a id="c105_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he brought forth his people with joy, <em>and</em> his chosen with gladness: <a id="c105_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labour of the people; <a id="c105_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise ye the LORD.

</body>
</html>