<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 22</h2>

<a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Aijeleth Shahar, A Psalm of David.</b> My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? <em>why art thou so</em> far from helping me, <em>and from</em> the words of my roaring? <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But thou <em>art</em> holy, <em>O thou</em> that inhabitest the praises of Israel. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I <em>am</em> a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, <em>saying</em>, <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He trusted on the LORD <em>that</em> he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But thou <em>art</em> he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me hope <em>when I was</em> upon my mother's breasts. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou <em>art</em> my God from my mother's belly. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be not far from me; for trouble <em>is</em> near; for <em>there is</em> none to help. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Many bulls have compassed me: strong <em>bulls</em> of Bashan have beset me round. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They gaped upon me <em>with</em> their mouths, <em>as</em> a ravening and a roaring lion. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I may tell all my bones: they look <em>and</em> stare upon me. <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But be not thou far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste thee to help me. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Save me from the lion's mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> My praise <em>shall be</em> of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD that seek him: your heart shall live for ever. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the LORD: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the kingdom <em>is</em> the LORD'S: and he <em>is</em> the governor among the nations. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> All <em>they that be</em> fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done <em>this</em>.

</body>
</html>