<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Nehiloth, A Psalm of David.</b> Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto thee will I pray. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning will I direct <em>my prayer</em> unto thee, and will look up. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou <em>art</em> not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither shall evil dwell with thee. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers of iniquity. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor the bloody and deceitful man. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But as for me, I will come <em>into</em> thy house in the multitude of thy mercy: <em>and</em> in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; make thy way straight before my face. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For <em>there is</em> no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part <em>is</em> very wickedness; their throat <em>is</em> an open sepulchre; they flatter with their tongue. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have rebelled against thee. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as <em>with</em> a shield.

</body>
</html>