<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 85</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 85</h2>

<a id="c85_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm for the sons of Korah.</b> LORD, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob. <a id="c85_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin. Selah. <a id="c85_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast taken away all thy wrath: thou hast turned <em>thyself</em> from the fierceness of thine anger. <a id="c85_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease. <a id="c85_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? <a id="c85_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy people may rejoice in thee? <a id="c85_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Shew us thy mercy, O LORD, and grant us thy salvation. <a id="c85_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will hear what God the LORD will speak: for he will speak peace unto his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again to folly. <a id="c85_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely his salvation <em>is</em> nigh them that fear him; that glory may dwell in our land. <a id="c85_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed <em>each other</em>. <a id="c85_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Truth shall spring out of the earth; and righteousness shall look down from heaven. <a id="c85_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, the LORD shall give <em>that which is</em> good; and our land shall yield her increase. <a id="c85_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Righteousness shall go before him; and shall set <em>us</em> in the way of his steps.

</body>
</html>