<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 144</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 144</h2>

<a id="c144_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> of David.</b> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD my strength, which teacheth my hands to war, <em>and</em> my fingers to fight: <a id="c144_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer; my shield, and <em>he</em> in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under me. <a id="c144_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> LORD, what <em>is</em> man, that thou takest knowledge of him! <em>or</em> the son of man, that thou makest account of him! <a id="c144_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Man is like to vanity: his days <em>are</em> as a shadow that passeth away. <a id="c144_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Bow thy heavens, O LORD, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke. <a id="c144_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out thine arrows, and destroy them. <a id="c144_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Send thine hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great waters, from the hand of strange children; <a id="c144_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand <em>is</em> a right hand of falsehood. <a id="c144_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery <em>and</em> an instrument of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee. <a id="c144_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>It is he</em> that giveth salvation unto kings: who delivereth David his servant from the hurtful sword. <a id="c144_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand <em>is</em> a right hand of falsehood: <a id="c144_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> That our sons <em>may be</em> as plants grown up in their youth; <em>that</em> our daughters <em>may be</em> as corner stones, polished <em>after</em> the similitude of a palace: <a id="c144_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> <em>That</em> our garners <em>may be</em> full, affording all manner of store: <em>that</em> our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets: <a id="c144_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> <em>That</em> our oxen <em>may be</em> strong to labour; <em>that there be</em> no breaking in, nor going out; that <em>there be</em> no complaining in our streets. <a id="c144_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Happy <em>is that</em> people, that is in such a case: <em>yea</em>, happy <em>is that</em> people, whose God <em>is</em> the LORD.

</body>
</html>