<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 102</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 102</h2>

<a id="c102_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Prayer of the afflicted, when he is overwhelmed, and poureth out his complaint before the LORD.</b> Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come unto thee. <a id="c102_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hide not thy face from me in the day <em>when</em> I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day <em>when</em> I call answer me speedily. <a id="c102_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth. <a id="c102_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread. <a id="c102_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my skin. <a id="c102_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert. <a id="c102_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top. <a id="c102_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Mine enemies reproach me all the day; <em>and</em> they that are mad against me are sworn against me. <a id="c102_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping, <a id="c102_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down. <a id="c102_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days <em>are</em> like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered like grass. <a id="c102_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But thou, O LORD, shalt endure for ever; and thy remembrance unto all generations. <a id="c102_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou shalt arise, <em>and</em> have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come. <a id="c102_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof. <a id="c102_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth thy glory. <a id="c102_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When the LORD shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory. <a id="c102_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer. <a id="c102_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the LORD. <a id="c102_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the LORD behold the earth; <a id="c102_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death; <a id="c102_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem; <a id="c102_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the LORD. <a id="c102_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days. <a id="c102_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years <em>are</em> throughout all generations. <a id="c102_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens <em>are</em> the work of thy hands. <a id="c102_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed: <a id="c102_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But thou <em>art</em> the same, and thy years shall have no end. <a id="c102_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee.

</body>
</html>