<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 19</h2>

<a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.</b> The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> <em>There is</em> no speech nor language, <em>where</em> their voice is not heard. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun, <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Which <em>is</em> as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, <em>and</em> rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His going forth <em>is</em> from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The law of the LORD <em>is</em> perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the LORD <em>is</em> sure, making wise the simple. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The statutes of the LORD <em>are</em> right, rejoicing the heart: the commandment of the LORD <em>is</em> pure, enlightening the eyes. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The fear of the LORD <em>is</em> clean, enduring for ever: the judgments of the LORD <em>are</em> true <em>and</em> righteous altogether. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> More to be desired <em>are they</em> than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Moreover by them is thy servant warned: <em>and</em> in keeping of them <em>there is</em> great reward. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who can understand <em>his</em> errors? cleanse thou me from secret <em>faults</em>. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous <em>sins</em>; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.

</body>
</html>