<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 39</h2>

<a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, <em>even</em> to Jeduthun, A Psalm of David.</b> I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me. <a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, <em>even</em> from good; and my sorrow was stirred. <a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned: <em>then</em> spake I with my tongue, <a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> LORD, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it <em>is; that</em> I may know how frail I <em>am</em>. <a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, thou hast made my days <em>as</em> an handbreadth; and mine age <em>is</em> as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state <em>is</em> altogether vanity. Selah. <a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are disquieted in vain: he heapeth up <em>riches</em>, and knoweth not who shall gather them. <a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope <em>is</em> in thee. <a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach of the foolish. <a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst <em>it</em>. <a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of thine hand. <a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man <em>is</em> vanity. Selah. <a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy peace at my tears: for I <em>am</em> a stranger with thee, <em>and</em> a sojourner, as all my fathers <em>were</em>. <a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and be no more.

</body>
</html>