<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 36</h2>

<a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, <em>A Psalm</em> of David the servant of the LORD.</b> The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, <em>that there is</em> no fear of God before his eyes. <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, until his iniquity be found to be hateful. <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The words of his mouth <em>are</em> iniquity and deceit: he hath left off to be wise, <em>and</em> to do good. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He deviseth mischief upon his bed; he setteth himself in a way <em>that is</em> not good; he abhorreth not evil. <a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thy mercy, O LORD, <em>is</em> in the heavens; <em>and</em> thy faithfulness <em>reacheth</em> unto the clouds. <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy righteousness <em>is</em> like the great mountains; thy judgments <em>are</em> a great deep: O LORD, thou preservest man and beast. <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> How excellent <em>is</em> thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. <a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house; and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures. <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For with thee <em>is</em> the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see light. <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee; and thy righteousness to the upright in heart. <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand of the wicked remove me. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down, and shall not be able to rise.

</body>
</html>