<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 115</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 115</h2>

<a id="c115_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Not unto us, O LORD, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory, for thy mercy, <em>and</em> for thy truth's sake. <a id="c115_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wherefore should the heathen say, Where <em>is</em> now their God? <a id="c115_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But our God <em>is</em> in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. <a id="c115_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their idols <em>are</em> silver and gold, the work of men's hands. <a id="c115_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they see not: <a id="c115_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they smell not: <a id="c115_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they walk not: neither speak they through their throat. <a id="c115_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They that make them are like unto them; <em>so is</em> every one that trusteth in them. <a id="c115_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Israel, trust thou in the LORD: he <em>is</em> their help and their shield. <a id="c115_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD: he <em>is</em> their help and their shield. <a id="c115_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ye that fear the LORD, trust in the LORD: he <em>is</em> their help and their shield. <a id="c115_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The LORD hath been mindful of us: he will bless <em>us</em>; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron. <a id="c115_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will bless them that fear the LORD, <em>both</em> small and great. <a id="c115_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The LORD shall increase you more and more, you and your children. <a id="c115_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ye <em>are</em> blessed of the LORD which made heaven and earth. <a id="c115_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The heaven, <em>even</em> the heavens, <em>are</em> the LORD'S: but the earth hath he given to the children of men. <a id="c115_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The dead praise not the LORD, neither any that go down into silence. <a id="c115_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and for evermore. Praise the LORD.

</body>
</html>