<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 44</h2>

<a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician for the sons of Korah, Maschil.</b> We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, <em>what</em> work thou didst in their days, in the times of old. <a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> <em>How</em> thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst them; <em>how</em> thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out. <a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour unto them. <a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou art my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob. <a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Through thee will we push down our enemies: through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us. <a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me. <a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us. <a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever. Selah. <a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth with our armies. <a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate us spoil for themselves. <a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast given us like sheep <em>appointed</em> for meat; and hast scattered us among the heathen. <a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou sellest thy people for nought, and dost not increase <em>thy wealth</em> by their price. <a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us. <a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head among the people. <a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My confusion <em>is</em> continually before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me, <a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; by reason of the enemy and avenger. <a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten thee, neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant. <a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy way; <a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death. <a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a strange god; <a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the heart. <a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter. <a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, cast <em>us</em> not off for ever. <a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wherefore hidest thou thy face, <em>and</em> forgettest our affliction and our oppression? <a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly cleaveth unto the earth. <a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies' sake.

</body>
</html>