<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 74</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 74</h2>

<a id="c74_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>Maschil of Asaph.</b> O God, why hast thou cast <em>us</em> off for ever? <em>why</em> doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture? <a id="c74_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Remember thy congregation, <em>which</em> thou hast purchased of old; the rod of thine inheritance, <em>which</em> thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt. <a id="c74_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; <em>even</em> all <em>that</em> the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary. <a id="c74_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their ensigns <em>for</em> signs. <a id="c74_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>A man</em> was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick trees. <a id="c74_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers. <a id="c74_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled <em>by casting down</em> the dwelling place of thy name to the ground. <a id="c74_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land. <a id="c74_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We see not our signs: <em>there is</em> no more any prophet: neither <em>is there</em> among us any that knoweth how long. <a id="c74_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme thy name for ever? <a id="c74_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck <em>it</em> out of thy bosom. <a id="c74_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For God <em>is</em> my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth. <a id="c74_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters. <a id="c74_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, <em>and</em> gavest him <em>to be</em> meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness. <a id="c74_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up mighty rivers. <a id="c74_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The day <em>is</em> thine, the night also <em>is</em> thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun. <a id="c74_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter. <a id="c74_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Remember this, <em>that</em> the enemy hath reproached, O LORD, and <em>that</em> the foolish people have blasphemed thy name. <a id="c74_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude <em>of the wicked</em>: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever. <a id="c74_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty. <a id="c74_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy praise thy name. <a id="c74_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily. <a id="c74_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually.

</body>
</html>