<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 88</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 88</h2>

<a id="c88_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Song <em>or</em> Psalm for the sons of Korah, to the chief Musician upon Mahalath Leannoth, Maschil of Heman the Ezrahite.</b> O LORD God of my salvation, I have cried day <em>and</em> night before thee: <a id="c88_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my prayer come before thee: incline thine ear unto my cry; <a id="c88_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my soul is full of troubles: and my life draweth nigh unto the grave. <a id="c88_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man <em>that hath</em> no strength: <a id="c88_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom thou rememberest no more: and they are cut off from thy hand. <a id="c88_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps. <a id="c88_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted <em>me</em> with all thy waves. Selah. <a id="c88_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me; thou hast made me an abomination unto them: <em>I am</em> shut up, and I cannot come forth. <a id="c88_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction: LORD, I have called daily upon thee, I have stretched out my hands unto thee. <a id="c88_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise <em>and</em> praise thee? Selah. <a id="c88_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? <em>or</em> thy faithfulness in destruction? <a id="c88_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? <a id="c88_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But unto thee have I cried, O LORD; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee. <a id="c88_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> LORD, why castest thou off my soul? <em>why</em> hidest thou thy face from me? <a id="c88_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I <em>am</em> afflicted and ready to die from <em>my</em> youth up: <em>while</em> I suffer thy terrors I am distracted. <a id="c88_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thy fierce wrath goeth over me; thy terrors have cut me off. <a id="c88_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They came round about me daily like water; they compassed me about together. <a id="c88_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, <em>and</em> mine acquaintance into darkness.

</body>
</html>