<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 40</h2>

<a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.</b> I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry. <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, <em>and</em> established my goings. <a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he hath put a new song in my mouth, <em>even</em> praise unto our God: many shall see <em>it</em>, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD. <a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed <em>is</em> that man that maketh the LORD his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. <a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Many, O LORD my God, <em>are</em> thy wonderful works <em>which</em> thou hast done, and thy thoughts <em>which are</em> to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee: <em>if</em> I would declare and speak <em>of them</em>, they are more than can be numbered. <a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required. <a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book <em>it is</em> written of me, <a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law <em>is</em> within my heart. <a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I have not refrained my lips, O LORD, thou knowest. <a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy lovingkindness and thy truth from the great congregation. <a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O LORD: let thy lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me. <a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart faileth me. <a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help me. <a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil. <a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, Aha, aha. <a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let such as love thy salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified. <a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But I <em>am</em> poor and needy; <em>yet</em> the Lord thinketh upon me: thou <em>art</em> my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.

</body>
</html>