<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 69</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 69</h2>

<a id="c69_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Shoshannim, <em>A Psalm</em> of David.</b> Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto <em>my</em> soul. <a id="c69_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I sink in deep mire, where <em>there is</em> no standing: I am come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me. <a id="c69_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fail while I wait for my God. <a id="c69_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine head: they that would destroy me, <em>being</em> mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored <em>that</em> which I took not away. <a id="c69_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from thee. <a id="c69_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed for my sake: let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake, O God of Israel. <a id="c69_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my face. <a id="c69_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother's children. <a id="c69_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me. <a id="c69_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When I wept, <em>and chastened</em> my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach. <a id="c69_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to them. <a id="c69_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I <em>was</em> the song of the drunkards. <a id="c69_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as for me, my prayer <em>is</em> unto thee, O LORD, <em>in</em> an acceptable time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of thy salvation. <a id="c69_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters. <a id="c69_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me. <a id="c69_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hear me, O LORD; for thy lovingkindness <em>is</em> good: turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies. <a id="c69_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily. <a id="c69_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Draw nigh unto my soul, <em>and</em> redeem it: deliver me because of mine enemies. <a id="c69_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour: mine adversaries <em>are</em> all before thee. <a id="c69_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked <em>for some</em> to take pity, but <em>there was</em> none; and for comforters, but I found none. <a id="c69_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. <a id="c69_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let their table become a snare before them: and <em>that which should have been</em> for <em>their</em> welfare, <em>let it become</em> a trap. <a id="c69_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to shake. <a id="c69_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them. <a id="c69_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let their habitation be desolate; <em>and</em> let none dwell in their tents. <a id="c69_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For they persecute <em>him</em> whom thou hast smitten; and they talk to the grief of those whom thou hast wounded. <a id="c69_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Add iniquity unto their iniquity: and let them not come into thy righteousness. <a id="c69_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous. <a id="c69_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But I <em>am</em> poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high. <a id="c69_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving. <a id="c69_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> <em>This</em> also shall please the LORD better than an ox <em>or</em> bullock that hath horns and hoofs. <a id="c69_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The humble shall see <em>this, and</em> be glad: and your heart shall live that seek God. <a id="c69_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For the LORD heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners. <a id="c69_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein. <a id="c69_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession. <a id="c69_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein.

</body>
</html>