<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 79</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 79</h2>

<a id="c79_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Psalm of Asaph.</b> O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps. <a id="c79_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The dead bodies of thy servants have they given <em>to be</em> meat unto the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth. <a id="c79_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and <em>there was</em> none to bury <em>them</em>. <a id="c79_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us. <a id="c79_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How long, LORD? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy burn like fire? <a id="c79_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name. <a id="c79_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place. <a id="c79_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low. <a id="c79_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name's sake. <a id="c79_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wherefore should the heathen say, Where <em>is</em> their God? let him be known among the heathen in our sight <em>by</em> the revenging of the blood of thy servants <em>which is</em> shed. <a id="c79_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to die; <a id="c79_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord. <a id="c79_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations.

</body>
</html>