<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 27</h2>

<a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> of David.</b> The LORD <em>is</em> my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the LORD <em>is</em> the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When the wicked, <em>even</em> mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this <em>will</em> I <em>be</em> confident. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One <em>thing</em> have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after; that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the LORD, and to enquire in his temple. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon a rock. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the LORD. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear, O LORD, <em>when</em> I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me, and answer me. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>When thou saidst</em>, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto thee, Thy face, LORD, will I seek. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hide not thy face <em>far</em> from me; put not thy servant away in anger: thou hast been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take me up. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Teach me thy way, O LORD, and lead me in a plain path, because of mine enemies. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> <em>I had fainted</em>, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living. <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wait on the LORD: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the LORD.

</body>
</html>