<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 71</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 71</h2>

<a id="c71_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion. <a id="c71_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline thine ear unto me, and save me. <a id="c71_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou <em>art</em> my rock and my fortress. <a id="c71_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. <a id="c71_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thou <em>art</em> my hope, O Lord GOD: <em>thou art</em> my trust from my youth. <a id="c71_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that took me out of my mother's bowels: my praise <em>shall be</em> continually of thee. <a id="c71_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I am as a wonder unto many; but thou <em>art</em> my strong refuge. <a id="c71_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let my mouth be filled <em>with</em> thy praise <em>and with</em> thy honour all the day. <a id="c71_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth. <a id="c71_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together, <a id="c71_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for <em>there is</em> none to deliver <em>him</em>. <a id="c71_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help. <a id="c71_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let them be confounded <em>and</em> consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered <em>with</em> reproach and dishonour that seek my hurt. <a id="c71_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more. <a id="c71_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness <em>and</em> thy salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers <em>thereof</em>. <a id="c71_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD: I will make mention of thy righteousness, <em>even</em> of thine only. <a id="c71_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works. <a id="c71_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now also when I am old and grayheaded, O God, forsake me not; until I have shewed thy strength unto <em>this</em> generation, <em>and</em> thy power to every one <em>that</em> is to come. <a id="c71_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy righteousness also, O God, <em>is</em> very high, who hast done great things: O God, who <em>is</em> like unto thee! <a id="c71_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> <em>Thou</em>, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth. <a id="c71_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side. <a id="c71_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I will also praise thee with the psaltery, <em>even</em> thy truth, O my God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel. <a id="c71_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed. <a id="c71_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my hurt.

</body>
</html>