<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 118</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 118</h2>

<a id="c118_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O give thanks unto the LORD; for <em>he is</em> good: because his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c118_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let Israel now say, that his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c118_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c118_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let them now that fear the LORD say, that his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c118_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I called upon the LORD in distress: the LORD answered me, <em>and set me</em> in a large place. <a id="c118_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The LORD <em>is</em> on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me? <a id="c118_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The LORD taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see <em>my desire</em> upon them that hate me. <a id="c118_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>It is</em> better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in man. <a id="c118_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>It is</em> better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in princes. <a id="c118_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD will I destroy them. <a id="c118_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD I will destroy them. <a id="c118_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They compassed me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of the LORD I will destroy them. <a id="c118_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the LORD helped me. <a id="c118_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The LORD <em>is</em> my strength and song, and is become my salvation. <a id="c118_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The voice of rejoicing and salvation <em>is</em> in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly. <a id="c118_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The right hand of the LORD is exalted: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly. <a id="c118_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD. <a id="c118_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The LORD hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death. <a id="c118_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, <em>and</em> I will praise the LORD: <a id="c118_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This gate of the LORD, into which the righteous shall enter. <a id="c118_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation. <a id="c118_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The stone <em>which</em> the builders refused is become the head <em>stone</em> of the corner. <a id="c118_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This is the LORD'S doing; it <em>is</em> marvellous in our eyes. <a id="c118_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> This <em>is</em> the day <em>which</em> the LORD hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it. <a id="c118_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Save now, I beseech thee, O LORD: O LORD, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. <a id="c118_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Blessed <em>be</em> he that cometh in the name of the LORD: we have blessed you out of the house of the LORD. <a id="c118_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> God <em>is</em> the LORD, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, <em>even</em> unto the horns of the altar. <a id="c118_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou <em>art</em> my God, and I will praise thee: <em>thou art</em> my God, I will exalt thee. <a id="c118_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> O give thanks unto the LORD; for <em>he is</em> good: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

</body>
</html>