<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 52</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 52</h2>

<a id="c52_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, Maschil, <em>A Psalm</em> of David, when Doeg the Edomite came and told Saul, and said unto him, David is come to the house of Ahimelech.</b> Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness of God <em>endureth</em> continually. <a id="c52_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working deceitfully. <a id="c52_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou lovest evil more than good; <em>and</em> lying rather than to speak righteousness. Selah. <a id="c52_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou lovest all devouring words, O <em>thou</em> deceitful tongue. <a id="c52_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee away, and pluck thee out of <em>thy</em> dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living. Selah. <a id="c52_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him: <a id="c52_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, <em>this is</em> the man <em>that</em> made not God his strength; but trusted in the abundance of his riches, <em>and</em> strengthened himself in his wickedness. <a id="c52_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But I <em>am</em> like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever. <a id="c52_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done <em>it</em>: and I will wait on thy name; for <em>it is</em> good before thy saints.

</body>
</html>