<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 136</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 136</h2>

<a id="c136_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O give thanks unto the LORD; for <em>he is</em> good: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O give thanks unto the God of gods: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To him who alone doeth great wonders: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To him that made great lights: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sun to rule by day: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And made Israel to pass through the midst of it: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> To him which smote great kings: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And slew famous kings: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> <em>Even</em> an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever: <a id="c136_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c136_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever.

</body>
</html>