<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 108</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 108</h2>

<a id="c108_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Song <em>or</em> Psalm of David.</b> O God, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory. <a id="c108_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Awake, psaltery and harp: I <em>myself</em> will awake early. <a id="c108_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will praise thee, O LORD, among the people: and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations. <a id="c108_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thy mercy <em>is</em> great above the heavens: and thy truth <em>reacheth</em> unto the clouds. <a id="c108_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth; <a id="c108_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That thy beloved may be delivered: save <em>with</em> thy right hand, and answer me. <a id="c108_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth. <a id="c108_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Gilead <em>is</em> mine; Manasseh <em>is</em> mine; Ephraim also <em>is</em> the strength of mine head; Judah <em>is</em> my lawgiver; <a id="c108_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Moab <em>is</em> my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over Philistia will I triumph. <a id="c108_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom? <a id="c108_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>Wilt</em> not <em>thou</em>, O God, <em>who</em> hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our hosts? <a id="c108_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Give us help from trouble: for vain <em>is</em> the help of man. <a id="c108_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Through God we shall do valiantly: for he <em>it is that</em> shall tread down our enemies.

</body>
</html>