<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 104</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 104</h2>

<a id="c104_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with honour and majesty. <a id="c104_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who coverest <em>thyself</em> with light as <em>with</em> a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain: <a id="c104_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind: <a id="c104_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire: <a id="c104_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>Who</em> laid the foundations of the earth, <em>that</em> it should not be removed for ever. <a id="c104_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou coveredst it with the deep as <em>with</em> a garment: the waters stood above the mountains. <a id="c104_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away. <a id="c104_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them. <a id="c104_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth. <a id="c104_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He sendeth the springs into the valleys, <em>which</em> run among the hills. <a id="c104_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst. <a id="c104_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, <em>which</em> sing among the branches. <a id="c104_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works. <a id="c104_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth; <a id="c104_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And wine <em>that</em> maketh glad the heart of man, <em>and</em> oil to make <em>his</em> face to shine, and bread <em>which</em> strengtheneth man's heart. <a id="c104_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The trees of the LORD are full <em>of sap</em>; the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted; <a id="c104_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Where the birds make their nests: <em>as for</em> the stork, the fir trees <em>are</em> her house. <a id="c104_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The high hills <em>are</em> a refuge for the wild goats; <em>and</em> the rocks for the conies. <a id="c104_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down. <a id="c104_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep <em>forth</em>. <a id="c104_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God. <a id="c104_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens. <a id="c104_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening. <a id="c104_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> O LORD, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches. <a id="c104_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> <em>So is</em> this great and wide sea, wherein <em>are</em> things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts. <a id="c104_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There go the ships: <em>there is</em> that leviathan, <em>whom</em> thou hast made to play therein. <a id="c104_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give <em>them</em> their meat in due season. <a id="c104_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> <em>That</em> thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good. <a id="c104_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust. <a id="c104_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renewest the face of the earth. <a id="c104_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall rejoice in his works. <a id="c104_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and they smoke. <a id="c104_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. <a id="c104_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the LORD. <a id="c104_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless thou the LORD, O my soul. Praise ye the LORD.

</body>
</html>