<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 86</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 86</h2>

<a id="c86_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Prayer of David.</b> Bow down thine ear, O LORD, hear me: for I <em>am</em> poor and needy. <a id="c86_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Preserve my soul; for I <em>am</em> holy: O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee. <a id="c86_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto thee daily. <a id="c86_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rejoice the soul of thy servant: for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. <a id="c86_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thou, Lord, <em>art</em> good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon thee. <a id="c86_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Give ear, O LORD, unto my prayer; and attend to the voice of my supplications. <a id="c86_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee: for thou wilt answer me. <a id="c86_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Among the gods <em>there is</em> none like unto thee, O Lord; neither <em>are there any works</em> like unto thy works. <a id="c86_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord; and shall glorify thy name. <a id="c86_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou <em>art</em> great, and doest wondrous things: thou <em>art</em> God alone. <a id="c86_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Teach me thy way, O LORD; I will walk in thy truth: unite my heart to fear thy name. <a id="c86_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will glorify thy name for evermore. <a id="c86_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For great <em>is</em> thy mercy toward me: and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. <a id="c86_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies of violent <em>men</em> have sought after my soul; and have not set thee before them. <a id="c86_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But thou, O Lord, <em>art</em> a God full of compassion, and gracious, longsuffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth. <a id="c86_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid. <a id="c86_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see <em>it</em>, and be ashamed: because thou, LORD, hast holpen me, and comforted me.

</body>
</html>