<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 83</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 83</h2>

<a id="c83_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Song <em>or</em> Psalm of Asaph.</b> Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God. <a id="c83_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee have lifted up the head. <a id="c83_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones. <a id="c83_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from <em>being</em> a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. <a id="c83_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For they have consulted together with one consent: they are confederate against thee: <a id="c83_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarenes; <a id="c83_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre; <a id="c83_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Assur also is joined with them: they have holpen the children of Lot. Selah. <a id="c83_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do unto them as <em>unto</em> the Midianites; as <em>to</em> Sisera, as <em>to</em> Jabin, at the brook of Kison: <a id="c83_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>Which</em> perished at Endor: they became <em>as</em> dung for the earth. <a id="c83_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna: <a id="c83_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession. <a id="c83_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the wind. <a id="c83_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire; <a id="c83_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm. <a id="c83_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O LORD. <a id="c83_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be put to shame, and perish: <a id="c83_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> That <em>men</em> may know that thou, whose name alone <em>is</em> JEHOVAH, <em>art</em> the most high over all the earth.

</body>
</html>