<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 140</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 140</h2>

<a id="c140_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.</b> Deliver me, O LORD, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man; <a id="c140_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Which imagine mischiefs in <em>their</em> heart; continually are they gathered together <em>for</em> war. <a id="c140_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders' poison <em>is</em> under their lips. Selah. <a id="c140_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings. <a id="c140_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah. <a id="c140_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I said unto the LORD, Thou <em>art</em> my God: hear the voice of my supplications, O LORD. <a id="c140_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle. <a id="c140_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; <em>lest</em> they exalt themselves. Selah. <a id="c140_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>As for</em> the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips cover them. <a id="c140_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let burning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again. <a id="c140_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow <em>him</em>. <a id="c140_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, <em>and</em> the right of the poor. <a id="c140_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the upright shall dwell in thy presence.

</body>
</html>