<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 60</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 60</h2>

<a id="c60_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Shushaneduth, Michtam of David, to teach; when he strove with Aramnaharaim and with Aramzobah, when Joab returned, and smote of Edom in the valley of salt twelve thousand.</b> O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased; O turn thyself to us again. <a id="c60_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast made the earth to tremble; thou hast broken it: heal the breaches thereof; for it shaketh. <a id="c60_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment. <a id="c60_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah. <a id="c60_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That thy beloved may be delivered; save <em>with</em> thy right hand, and hear me. <a id="c60_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth. <a id="c60_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gilead <em>is</em> mine, and Manasseh <em>is</em> mine; Ephraim also <em>is</em> the strength of mine head; Judah <em>is</em> my lawgiver; <a id="c60_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Moab <em>is</em> my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia, triumph thou because of me. <a id="c60_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who will bring me <em>into</em> the strong city? who will lead me into Edom? <a id="c60_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>Wilt</em> not thou, O God, <em>which</em> hadst cast us off? and <em>thou</em>, O God, <em>which</em> didst not go out with our armies? <a id="c60_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Give us help from trouble: for vain <em>is</em> the help of man. <a id="c60_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Through God we shall do valiantly: for he <em>it is that</em> shall tread down our enemies.

</body>
</html>