<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 10</h2>

<a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? <em>why</em> hidest thou <em>thyself</em> in times of trouble? <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The wicked in <em>his</em> pride doth persecute the poor: let them be taken in the devices that they have imagined. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the covetous, <em>whom</em> the LORD abhorreth. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek <em>after God</em>: God <em>is</em> not in all his thoughts. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His ways are always grievous; thy judgments <em>are</em> far above out of his sight: <em>as for</em> all his enemies, he puffeth at them. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for <em>I shall</em> never <em>be</em> in adversity. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his tongue <em>is</em> mischief and vanity. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against the poor. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into his net. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He croucheth, <em>and</em> humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by his strong ones. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his face; he will never see <em>it</em>. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require <em>it</em>. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou hast seen <em>it</em>; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite <em>it</em> with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou art the helper of the fatherless. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil <em>man</em>: seek out his wickedness <em>till</em> thou find none. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The LORD <em>is</em> King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out of his land. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear: <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress.

</body>
</html>