<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 106</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 106</h2>

<a id="c106_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. O give thanks unto the LORD; for <em>he is</em> good: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c106_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? <em>who</em> can shew forth all his praise? <a id="c106_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed <em>are</em> they that keep judgment, <em>and</em> he that doeth righteousness at all times. <a id="c106_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Remember me, O LORD, with the favour <em>that thou bearest unto</em> thy people: O visit me with thy salvation; <a id="c106_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance. <a id="c106_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly. <a id="c106_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked <em>him</em> at the sea, <em>even</em> at the Red sea. <a id="c106_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known. <a id="c106_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness. <a id="c106_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he saved them from the hand of him that hated <em>them</em>, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. <a id="c106_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left. <a id="c106_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then believed they his words; they sang his praise. <a id="c106_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel: <a id="c106_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert. <a id="c106_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul. <a id="c106_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They envied Moses also in the camp, <em>and</em> Aaron the saint of the LORD. <a id="c106_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram. <a id="c106_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked. <a id="c106_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image. <a id="c106_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass. <a id="c106_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in Egypt; <a id="c106_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wondrous works in the land of Ham, <em>and</em> terrible things by the Red sea. <a id="c106_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy <em>them</em>. <a id="c106_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word: <a id="c106_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But murmured in their tents, <em>and</em> hearkened not unto the voice of the LORD. <a id="c106_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness: <a id="c106_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands. <a id="c106_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They joined themselves also unto Baalpeor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead. <a id="c106_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Thus they provoked <em>him</em> to anger with their inventions: and the plague brake in upon them. <a id="c106_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and <em>so</em> the plague was stayed. <a id="c106_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And that was counted unto him for righteousness unto all generations for evermore. <a id="c106_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> They angered <em>him</em> also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes: <a id="c106_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips. <a id="c106_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the LORD commanded them: <a id="c106_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works. <a id="c106_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And they served their idols: which were a snare unto them. <a id="c106_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils, <a id="c106_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And shed innocent blood, <em>even</em> the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood. <a id="c106_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions. <a id="c106_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance. <a id="c106_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that hated them ruled over them. <a id="c106_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand. <a id="c106_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked <em>him</em> with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity. <a id="c106_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry: <a id="c106_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies. <a id="c106_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives. <a id="c106_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto thy holy name, <em>and</em> to triumph in thy praise. <a id="c106_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the LORD.

</body>
</html>