<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 65</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 65</h2>

<a id="c65_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm <em>and</em> Song of David.</b> Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed. <a id="c65_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come. <a id="c65_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Iniquities prevail against me: <em>as for</em> our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away. <a id="c65_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed <em>is the man whom</em> thou choosest, and causest to approach <em>unto thee, that</em> he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, <em>even</em> of thy holy temple. <a id="c65_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>By</em> terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation; <em>who art</em> the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off <em>upon</em> the sea: <a id="c65_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; <em>being</em> girded with power: <a id="c65_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people. <a id="c65_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice. <a id="c65_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, <em>which</em> is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it. <a id="c65_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof. <a id="c65_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness. <a id="c65_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They drop <em>upon</em> the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side. <a id="c65_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.

</body>
</html>