<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 76</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 76</h2>

<a id="c76_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician on Neginoth, A Psalm <em>or</em> Song of Asaph.</b> In Judah <em>is</em> God known: his name <em>is</em> great in Israel. <a id="c76_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion. <a id="c76_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah. <a id="c76_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou <em>art</em> more glorious <em>and</em> excellent than the mountains of prey. <a id="c76_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and none of the men of might have found their hands. <a id="c76_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep. <a id="c76_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou, <em>even</em> thou, <em>art</em> to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art angry? <a id="c76_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still, <a id="c76_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth. Selah. <a id="c76_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain. <a id="c76_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Vow, and pay unto the LORD your God: let all that be round about him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared. <a id="c76_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He shall cut off the spirit of princes: <em>he is</em> terrible to the kings of the earth.

</body>
</html>