<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 145</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 145</h2>

<a id="c145_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>David's <em>Psalm</em> of praise.</b> I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for ever and ever. <a id="c145_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever and ever. <a id="c145_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Great <em>is</em> the LORD, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness <em>is</em> unsearchable. <a id="c145_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts. <a id="c145_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will speak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works. <a id="c145_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And <em>men</em> shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I will declare thy greatness. <a id="c145_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness. <a id="c145_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The LORD <em>is</em> gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy. <a id="c145_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The LORD <em>is</em> good to all: and his tender mercies <em>are</em> over all his works. <a id="c145_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All thy works shall praise thee, O LORD; and thy saints shall bless thee. <a id="c145_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy power; <a id="c145_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the glorious majesty of his kingdom. <a id="c145_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy kingdom <em>is</em> an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion <em>endureth</em> throughout all generations. <a id="c145_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The LORD upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all <em>those that be</em> bowed down. <a id="c145_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their meat in due season. <a id="c145_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing. <a id="c145_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The LORD <em>is</em> righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works. <a id="c145_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The LORD <em>is</em> nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth. <a id="c145_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them. <a id="c145_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The LORD preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy. <a id="c145_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever.

</body>
</html>