<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 30</h2>

<a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Psalm <em>and</em> Song <em>at</em> the dedication of the house of David.</b> I will extol thee, O LORD; for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me. <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O LORD my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me. <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O LORD, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave: thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sing unto the LORD, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For his anger <em>endureth but</em> a moment; in his favour <em>is</em> life: weeping may endure for a night, but joy <em>cometh</em> in the morning. <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved. <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> LORD, by thy favour thou hast made my mountain to stand strong: thou didst hide thy face, <em>and</em> I was troubled. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I cried to thee, O LORD; and unto the LORD I made supplication. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What profit <em>is there</em> in my blood, when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth? <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear, O LORD, and have mercy upon me: LORD, be thou my helper. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou hast put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness; <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To the end that <em>my</em> glory may sing praise to thee, and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.

</body>
</html>