<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 38</h2>

<a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Psalm of David, to bring to remembrance.</b> O LORD, rebuke me not in thy wrath: neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. <a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. <a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> <em>There is</em> no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger; neither <em>is there any</em> rest in my bones because of my sin. <a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me. <a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My wounds stink <em>and</em> are corrupt because of my foolishness. <a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long. <a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For my loins are filled with a loathsome <em>disease</em>: and <em>there is</em> no soundness in my flesh. <a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. <a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lord, all my desire <em>is</em> before thee; and my groaning is not hid from thee. <a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My heart panteth, my strength faileth me: as for the light of mine eyes, it also is gone from me. <a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore; and my kinsmen stand afar off. <a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They also that seek after my life lay snares <em>for me</em>: and they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all the day long. <a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But I, as a deaf <em>man</em>, heard not; and <em>I was</em> as a dumb man <em>that</em> openeth not his mouth. <a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth <em>are</em> no reproofs. <a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For in thee, O LORD, do I hope: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God. <a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I said, <em>Hear me</em>, lest <em>otherwise</em> they should rejoice over me: when my foot slippeth, they magnify <em>themselves</em> against me. <a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I <em>am</em> ready to halt, and my sorrow <em>is</em> continually before me. <a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin. <a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But mine enemies <em>are</em> lively, <em>and</em> they are strong: and they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied. <a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries; because I follow <em>the thing that</em> good <em>is</em>. <a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Forsake me not, O LORD: O my God, be not far from me. <a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Make haste to help me, O Lord my salvation.

</body>
</html>