<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 81</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 81</h2>

<a id="c81_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Gittith, <em>A Psalm</em> of Asaph.</b> Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob. <a id="c81_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp with the psaltery. <a id="c81_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on our solemn feast day. <a id="c81_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For this <em>was</em> a statute for Israel, <em>and</em> a law of the God of Jacob. <a id="c81_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> This he ordained in Joseph <em>for</em> a testimony, when he went out through the land of Egypt: <em>where</em> I heard a language <em>that</em> I understood not. <a id="c81_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered from the pots. <a id="c81_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder: I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah. <a id="c81_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me; <a id="c81_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship any strange god. <a id="c81_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I <em>am</em> the LORD thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. <a id="c81_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would none of me. <a id="c81_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So I gave them up unto their own hearts' lust: <em>and</em> they walked in their own counsels. <a id="c81_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, <em>and</em> Israel had walked in my ways! <a id="c81_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand against their adversaries. <a id="c81_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The haters of the LORD should have submitted themselves unto him: but their time should have endured for ever. <a id="c81_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.

</body>
</html>