<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 147</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 147</h2>

<a id="c147_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye the LORD: for <em>it is</em> good to sing praises unto our God; for <em>it is</em> pleasant; <em>and</em> praise is comely. <a id="c147_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The LORD doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the outcasts of Israel. <a id="c147_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds. <a id="c147_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by <em>their</em> names. <a id="c147_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Great <em>is</em> our Lord, and of great power: his understanding <em>is</em> infinite. <a id="c147_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The LORD lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the ground. <a id="c147_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Sing unto the LORD with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp unto our God: <a id="c147_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains. <a id="c147_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He giveth to the beast his food, <em>and</em> to the young ravens which cry. <a id="c147_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He delighteth not in the strength of the horse: he taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man. <a id="c147_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The LORD taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy. <a id="c147_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem; praise thy God, O Zion. <a id="c147_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; he hath blessed thy children within thee. <a id="c147_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He maketh peace <em>in</em> thy borders, <em>and</em> filleth thee with the finest of the wheat. <a id="c147_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He sendeth forth his commandment <em>upon</em> earth: his word runneth very swiftly. <a id="c147_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes. <a id="c147_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his cold? <a id="c147_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind to blow, <em>and</em> the waters flow. <a id="c147_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel. <a id="c147_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He hath not dealt so with any nation: and <em>as for his</em> judgments, they have not known them. Praise ye the LORD.

</body>
</html>