<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 94</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 94</h2>

<a id="c94_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O LORD God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself. <a id="c94_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud. <a id="c94_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph? <a id="c94_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> <em>How long</em> shall they utter <em>and</em> speak hard things? <em>and</em> all the workers of iniquity boast themselves? <a id="c94_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They break in pieces thy people, O LORD, and afflict thine heritage. <a id="c94_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless. <a id="c94_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yet they say, The LORD shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard <em>it</em>. <a id="c94_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Understand, ye brutish among the people: and <em>ye</em> fools, when will ye be wise? <a id="c94_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see? <a id="c94_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, <em>shall not he know</em>? <a id="c94_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The LORD knoweth the thoughts of man, that they <em>are</em> vanity. <a id="c94_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed <em>is</em> the man whom thou chastenest, O LORD, and teachest him out of thy law; <a id="c94_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked. <a id="c94_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the LORD will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. <a id="c94_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it. <a id="c94_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? <em>or</em> who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? <a id="c94_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Unless the LORD <em>had been</em> my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence. <a id="c94_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O LORD, held me up. <a id="c94_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight my soul. <a id="c94_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth mischief by a law? <a id="c94_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood. <a id="c94_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the LORD is my defence; and my God <em>is</em> the rock of my refuge. <a id="c94_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; <em>yea</em>, the LORD our God shall cut them off.

</body>
</html>