<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 28</h2>

<a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> of David.</b> Unto thee will I cry, O LORD my rock; be not silent to me: lest, <em>if</em> thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbours, but mischief <em>is</em> in their hearts. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavours: give them after the work of their hands; render to them their desert. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because they regard not the works of the LORD, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The LORD <em>is</em> my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him, and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my song will I praise him. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The LORD <em>is</em> their strength, and he <em>is</em> the saving strength of his anointed. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance: feed them also, and lift them up for ever.

</body>
</html>