<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 97</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 97</h2>

<a id="c97_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The LORD reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles be glad <em>thereof</em>. <a id="c97_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Clouds and darkness <em>are</em> round about him: righteousness and judgment <em>are</em> the habitation of his throne. <a id="c97_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about. <a id="c97_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His lightnings enlightened the world: the earth saw, and trembled. <a id="c97_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The hills melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. <a id="c97_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory. <a id="c97_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship him, all <em>ye</em> gods. <a id="c97_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of thy judgments, O LORD. <a id="c97_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For thou, LORD, <em>art</em> high above all the earth: thou art exalted far above all gods. <a id="c97_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye that love the LORD, hate evil: he preserveth the souls of his saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked. <a id="c97_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart. <a id="c97_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Rejoice in the LORD, ye righteous; and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.

</body>
</html>