<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 135</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 135</h2>

<a id="c135_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the name of the LORD; praise <em>him</em>, O ye servants of the LORD. <a id="c135_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God, <a id="c135_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise the LORD; for the LORD <em>is</em> good: sing praises unto his name; for <em>it is</em> pleasant. <a id="c135_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the LORD hath chosen Jacob unto himself, <em>and</em> Israel for his peculiar treasure. <a id="c135_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I know that the LORD <em>is</em> great, and <em>that</em> our Lord <em>is</em> above all gods. <a id="c135_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whatsoever the LORD pleased, <em>that</em> did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places. <a id="c135_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain; he bringeth the wind out of his treasuries. <a id="c135_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast. <a id="c135_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>Who</em> sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants. <a id="c135_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings; <a id="c135_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan: <a id="c135_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And gave their land <em>for</em> an heritage, an heritage unto Israel his people. <a id="c135_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy name, O LORD, <em>endureth</em> for ever; <em>and</em> thy memorial, O LORD, throughout all generations. <a id="c135_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the LORD will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants. <a id="c135_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The idols of the heathen <em>are</em> silver and gold, the work of men's hands. <a id="c135_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not; <a id="c135_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there <em>any</em> breath in their mouths. <a id="c135_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They that make them are like unto them: <em>so is</em> every one that trusteth in them. <a id="c135_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Bless the LORD, O house of Israel: bless the LORD, O house of Aaron: <a id="c135_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Bless the LORD, O house of Levi: ye that fear the LORD, bless the LORD. <a id="c135_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD.

</body>
</html>