<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 25</h2>

<a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> of David.</b> Unto thee, O LORD, do I lift up my soul. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O my God, I trust in thee: let me not be ashamed, let not mine enemies triumph over me. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed: let them be ashamed which transgress without cause. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Shew me thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou <em>art</em> the God of my salvation; on thee do I wait all the day. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Remember, O LORD, thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindnesses; for they <em>have been</em> ever of old. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions: according to thy mercy remember thou me for thy goodness' sake, O LORD. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Good and upright <em>is</em> the LORD: therefore will he teach sinners in the way. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All the paths of the LORD <em>are</em> mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For thy name's sake, O LORD, pardon mine iniquity; for it <em>is</em> great. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What man <em>is</em> he that feareth the LORD? him shall he teach in the way <em>that</em> he shall choose. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the earth. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The secret of the LORD <em>is</em> with them that fear him; and he will shew them his covenant. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Mine eyes <em>are</em> ever toward the LORD; for he shall pluck my feet out of the net. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for I <em>am</em> desolate and afflicted. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The troubles of my heart are enlarged: <em>O</em> bring thou me out of my distresses. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Look upon mine affliction and my pain; and forgive all my sins. <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Consider mine enemies; for they are many; and they hate me with cruel hatred. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> O keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I put my trust in thee. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let integrity and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on thee. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.

</body>
</html>