<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 141</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 141</h2>

<a id="c141_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Psalm of David.</b> LORD, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me; give ear unto my voice, when I cry unto thee. <a id="c141_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my prayer be set forth before thee <em>as</em> incense; <em>and</em> the lifting up of my hands <em>as</em> the evening sacrifice. <a id="c141_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Set a watch, O LORD, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips. <a id="c141_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Incline not my heart to <em>any</em> evil thing, to practise wicked works with men that work iniquity: and let me not eat of their dainties. <a id="c141_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let the righteous smite me; <em>it shall be</em> a kindness: and let him reprove me; <em>it shall be</em> an excellent oil, <em>which</em> shall not break my head: for yet my prayer also <em>shall be</em> in their calamities. <a id="c141_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall hear my words; for they are sweet. <a id="c141_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our bones are scattered at the grave's mouth, as when one cutteth and cleaveth <em>wood</em> upon the earth. <a id="c141_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But mine eyes <em>are</em> unto thee, O GOD the Lord: in thee is my trust; leave not my soul destitute. <a id="c141_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Keep me from the snares <em>which</em> they have laid for me, and the gins of the workers of iniquity. <a id="c141_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I withal escape.

</body>
</html>