<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 116</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 116</h2>

<a id="c116_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I love the LORD, because he hath heard my voice <em>and</em> my supplications. <a id="c116_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon <em>him</em> as long as I live. <a id="c116_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow. <a id="c116_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then called I upon the name of the LORD; O LORD, I beseech thee, deliver my soul. <a id="c116_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Gracious <em>is</em> the LORD, and righteous; yea, our God <em>is</em> merciful. <a id="c116_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The LORD preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me. <a id="c116_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the LORD hath dealt bountifully with thee. <a id="c116_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, <em>and</em> my feet from falling. <a id="c116_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living. <a id="c116_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted: <a id="c116_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I said in my haste, All men <em>are</em> liars. <a id="c116_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What shall I render unto the LORD <em>for</em> all his benefits toward me? <a id="c116_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the LORD. <a id="c116_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people. <a id="c116_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Precious in the sight of the LORD <em>is</em> the death of his saints. <a id="c116_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> O LORD, truly I <em>am</em> thy servant; I <em>am</em> thy servant, <em>and</em> the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds. <a id="c116_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of the LORD. <a id="c116_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people, <a id="c116_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the courts of the LORD'S house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD.

</body>
</html>