<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing? <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, <em>saying</em>, <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall have them in derision. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will declare the decree: the LORD hath said unto me, Thou <em>art</em> my Son; this day have I begotten thee. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ask of me, and I shall give <em>thee</em> the heathen <em>for</em> thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth <em>for</em> thy possession. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of the earth. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish <em>from</em> the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed <em>are</em> all they that put their trust in him.

</body>
</html>