<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 78</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 78</h2>

<a id="c78_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>Maschil of Asaph.</b> Give ear, O my people, <em>to</em> my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth. <a id="c78_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old: <a id="c78_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. <a id="c78_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We will not hide <em>them</em> from their children, shewing to the generation to come the praises of the LORD, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done. <a id="c78_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children: <a id="c78_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That the generation to come might know <em>them, even</em> the children <em>which</em> should be born; <em>who</em> should arise and declare <em>them</em> to their children: <a id="c78_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments: <a id="c78_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation; a generation <em>that</em> set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not stedfast with God. <a id="c78_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The children of Ephraim, <em>being</em> armed, <em>and</em> carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle. <a id="c78_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law; <a id="c78_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And forgat his works, and his wonders that he had shewed them. <a id="c78_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, <em>in</em> the field of Zoan. <a id="c78_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made the waters to stand as an heap. <a id="c78_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire. <a id="c78_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave <em>them</em> drink as <em>out of</em> the great depths. <a id="c78_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers. <a id="c78_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High in the wilderness. <a id="c78_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust. <a id="c78_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yea, they spake against God; they said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness? <a id="c78_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for his people? <a id="c78_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore the LORD heard <em>this</em>, and was wroth: so a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel; <a id="c78_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation: <a id="c78_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven, <a id="c78_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them of the corn of heaven. <a id="c78_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Man did eat angels' food: he sent them meat to the full. <a id="c78_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power he brought in the south wind. <a id="c78_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea: <a id="c78_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he let <em>it</em> fall in the midst of their camp, round about their habitations. <a id="c78_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their own desire; <a id="c78_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat <em>was</em> yet in their mouths, <a id="c78_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The wrath of God came upon them, and slew the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen <em>men</em> of Israel. <a id="c78_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works. <a id="c78_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble. <a id="c78_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and enquired early after God. <a id="c78_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they remembered that God <em>was</em> their rock, and the high God their redeemer. <a id="c78_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto him with their tongues. <a id="c78_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For their heart was not right with him, neither were they stedfast in his covenant. <a id="c78_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But he, <em>being</em> full of compassion, forgave <em>their</em> iniquity, and destroyed <em>them</em> not: yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath. <a id="c78_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For he remembered that they <em>were but</em> flesh; a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again. <a id="c78_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, <em>and</em> grieve him in the desert! <a id="c78_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Yea, they turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One of Israel. <a id="c78_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They remembered not his hand, <em>nor</em> the day when he delivered them from the enemy. <a id="c78_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan: <a id="c78_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that they could not drink. <a id="c78_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them. <a id="c78_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their labour unto the locust. <a id="c78_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees with frost. <a id="c78_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts. <a id="c78_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels <em>among them</em>. <a id="c78_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence; <a id="c78_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of <em>their</em> strength in the tabernacles of Ham: <a id="c78_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock. <a id="c78_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea overwhelmed their enemies. <a id="c78_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, <em>even to</em> this mountain, <em>which</em> his right hand had purchased. <a id="c78_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents. <a id="c78_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies: <a id="c78_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they were turned aside like a deceitful bow. <a id="c78_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their graven images. <a id="c78_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> When God heard <em>this</em>, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel: <a id="c78_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent <em>which</em> he placed among men; <a id="c78_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the enemy's hand. <a id="c78_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wroth with his inheritance. <a id="c78_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not given to marriage. <a id="c78_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no lamentation. <a id="c78_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Then the Lord awaked as one out of sleep, <em>and</em> like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine. <a id="c78_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a perpetual reproach. <a id="c78_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim: <a id="c78_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved. <a id="c78_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> And he built his sanctuary like high <em>palaces</em>, like the earth which he hath established for ever. <a id="c78_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds: <a id="c78_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance. <a id="c78_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.

</body>
</html>