<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 68</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 68</h2>

<a id="c68_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm <em>or</em> Song of David.</b> Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him. <a id="c68_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As smoke is driven away, <em>so</em> drive <em>them</em> away: as wax melteth before the fire, <em>so</em> let the wicked perish at the presence of God. <a id="c68_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice. <a id="c68_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him. <a id="c68_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, <em>is</em> God in his holy habitation. <a id="c68_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry <em>land</em>. <a id="c68_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah: <a id="c68_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: <em>even</em> Sinai itself <em>was moved</em> at the presence of God, the God of Israel. <a id="c68_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary. <a id="c68_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the poor. <a id="c68_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Lord gave the word: great <em>was</em> the company of those that published <em>it</em>. <a id="c68_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil. <a id="c68_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Though ye have lien among the pots, <em>yet shall ye be as</em> the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold. <a id="c68_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was <em>white</em> as snow in Salmon. <a id="c68_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The hill of God <em>is as</em> the hill of Bashan; an high hill <em>as</em> the hill of Bashan. <a id="c68_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Why leap ye, ye high hills? <em>this is</em> the hill <em>which</em> God desireth to dwell in; yea, the LORD will dwell <em>in it</em> for ever. <a id="c68_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The chariots of God <em>are</em> twenty thousand, <em>even</em> thousands of angels: the Lord <em>is</em> among them, <em>as in</em> Sinai, in the holy <em>place</em>. <a id="c68_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, <em>for</em> the rebellious also, that the LORD God might dwell <em>among them</em>. <a id="c68_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Blessed <em>be</em> the Lord, <em>who</em> daily loadeth us <em>with benefits, even</em> the God of our salvation. Selah. <a id="c68_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> <em>He that is</em> our God <em>is</em> the God of salvation; and unto GOD the Lord <em>belong</em> the issues from death. <a id="c68_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But God shall wound the head of his enemies, <em>and</em> the hairy scalp of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses. <a id="c68_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring <em>my people</em> again from the depths of the sea: <a id="c68_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of <em>thine</em> enemies, <em>and</em> the tongue of thy dogs in the same. <a id="c68_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They have seen thy goings, O God; <em>even</em> the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary. <a id="c68_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The singers went before, the players on instruments <em>followed</em> after; among <em>them were</em> the damsels playing with timbrels. <a id="c68_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Bless ye God in the congregations, <em>even</em> the Lord, from the fountain of Israel. <a id="c68_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> There <em>is</em> little Benjamin <em>with</em> their ruler, the princes of Judah <em>and</em> their council, the princes of Zebulun, <em>and</em> the princes of Naphtali. <a id="c68_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us. <a id="c68_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents unto thee. <a id="c68_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people, <em>till every one</em> submit himself with pieces of silver: scatter thou the people <em>that</em> delight in war. <a id="c68_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God. <a id="c68_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; Selah: <a id="c68_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, <em>which were</em> of old; lo, he doth send out his voice, <em>and that</em> a mighty voice. <a id="c68_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency <em>is</em> over Israel, and his strength <em>is</em> in the clouds. <a id="c68_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> O God, <em>thou art</em> terrible out of thy holy places: the God of Israel <em>is</em> he that giveth strength and power unto <em>his</em> people. Blessed <em>be</em> God.

</body>
</html>