<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 46</h2>

<a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician for the sons of Korah, A Song upon Alamoth.</b> God <em>is</em> our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. <a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea; <a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> <em>Though</em> the waters thereof roar <em>and</em> be troubled, <em>though</em> the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah. <a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> <em>There is</em> a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy <em>place</em> of the tabernacles of the most High. <a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God <em>is</em> in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God shall help her, <em>and that</em> right early. <a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice, the earth melted. <a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The LORD of hosts <em>is</em> with us; the God of Jacob <em>is</em> our refuge. Selah. <a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Come, behold the works of the LORD, what desolations he hath made in the earth. <a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in the fire. <a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Be still, and know that I <em>am</em> God: I will be exalted among the heathen, I will be exalted in the earth. <a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The LORD of hosts <em>is</em> with us; the God of Jacob <em>is</em> our refuge. Selah.

</body>
</html>