<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 21</h2>

<a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.</b> The king shall joy in thy strength, O LORD; and in thy salvation how greatly shall he rejoice! <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden the request of his lips. Selah. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness: thou settest a crown of pure gold on his head. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He asked life of thee, <em>and</em> thou gavest <em>it</em> him, <em>even</em> length of days for ever and ever. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His glory <em>is</em> great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou laid upon him. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him exceeding glad with thy countenance. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the king trusteth in the LORD, and through the mercy of the most High he shall not be moved. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies: thy right hand shall find out those that hate thee. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger: the LORD shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour them. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of men. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous device, <em>which</em> they are not able <em>to perform</em>. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, <em>when</em> thou shalt make ready <em>thine arrows</em> upon thy strings against the face of them. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be thou exalted, LORD, in thine own strength: <em>so</em> will we sing and praise thy power.

</body>
</html>