<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 34</h2>

<a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> of David, when he changed his behaviour before Abimelech; who drove him away, and he departed.</b> I will bless the LORD at all times: his praise <em>shall</em> continually <em>be</em> in my mouth. <a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul shall make her boast in the LORD: the humble shall hear <em>thereof</em>, and be glad. <a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together. <a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I sought the LORD, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears. <a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They looked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were not ashamed. <a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This poor man cried, and the LORD heard <em>him</em>, and saved him out of all his troubles. <a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The angel of the LORD encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them. <a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O taste and see that the LORD <em>is</em> good: blessed <em>is</em> the man <em>that</em> trusteth in him. <a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O fear the LORD, ye his saints: for <em>there is</em> no want to them that fear him. <a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek the LORD shall not want any good <em>thing</em>. <a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Come, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of the LORD. <a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What man <em>is he that</em> desireth life, <em>and</em> loveth <em>many</em> days, that he may see good? <a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile. <a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it. <a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eyes of the LORD <em>are</em> upon the righteous, and his ears <em>are open</em> unto their cry. <a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The face of the LORD <em>is</em> against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. <a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> <em>The righteous</em> cry, and the LORD heareth, and delivereth them out of all their troubles. <a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The LORD <em>is</em> nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit. <a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Many <em>are</em> the afflictions of the righteous: but the LORD delivereth him out of them all. <a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken. <a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate. <a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The LORD redeemeth the soul of his servants: and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate.

</body>
</html>