<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 50</h2>

<a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Psalm of Asaph.</b> The mighty God, <em>even</em> the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. <a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined. <a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him. <a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people. <a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. <a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God <em>is</em> judge himself. Selah. <a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: I <em>am</em> God, <em>even</em> thy God. <a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt offerings, <em>to have been</em> continually before me. <a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will take no bullock out of thy house, <em>nor</em> he goats out of thy folds. <a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For every beast of the forest <em>is</em> mine, <em>and</em> the cattle upon a thousand hills. <a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field <em>are</em> mine. <a id="c50_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world <em>is</em> mine, and the fulness thereof. <a id="c50_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats? <a id="c50_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most High: <a id="c50_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me. <a id="c50_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or <em>that</em> thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth? <a id="c50_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Seeing thou hatest instruction, and castest my words behind thee. <a id="c50_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers. <a id="c50_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit. <a id="c50_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou sittest <em>and</em> speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest thine own mother's son. <a id="c50_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> These <em>things</em> hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest that I was altogether <em>such an one</em> as thyself: <em>but</em> I will reprove thee, and set <em>them</em> in order before thine eyes. <a id="c50_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear <em>you</em> in pieces, and <em>there be</em> none to deliver. <a id="c50_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth <em>his</em> conversation <em>aright</em> will I shew the salvation of God.

</body>
</html>