<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 92</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 92</h2>

<a id="c92_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Psalm <em>or</em> Song for the sabbath day.</b> <em>It is a</em> good <em>thing</em> to give thanks unto the LORD, and to sing praises unto thy name, O most High: <a id="c92_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To shew forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness every night, <a id="c92_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon the harp with a solemn sound. <a id="c92_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou, LORD, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy hands. <a id="c92_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O LORD, how great are thy works! <em>and</em> thy thoughts are very deep. <a id="c92_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this. <a id="c92_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; <em>it is</em> that they shall be destroyed for ever: <a id="c92_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But thou, LORD, <em>art most</em> high for evermore. <a id="c92_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, lo, thine enemies, O LORD, for, lo, thine enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered. <a id="c92_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But my horn shalt thou exalt like <em>the horn of</em> an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil. <a id="c92_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Mine eye also shall see <em>my desire</em> on mine enemies, <em>and</em> mine ears shall hear <em>my desire</em> of the wicked that rise up against me. <a id="c92_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. <a id="c92_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Those that be planted in the house of the LORD shall flourish in the courts of our God. <a id="c92_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing; <a id="c92_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To shew that the LORD <em>is</em> upright: <em>he is</em> my rock, and <em>there is</em> no unrighteousness in him.

</body>
</html>