<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 119</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 119</h2>

<a id="c119_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> ALEPH. Blessed <em>are</em> the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the LORD. <a id="c119_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed <em>are</em> they that keep his testimonies, <em>and that</em> seek him with the whole heart. <a id="c119_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways. <a id="c119_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou hast commanded <em>us</em> to keep thy precepts diligently. <a id="c119_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes! <a id="c119_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy commandments. <a id="c119_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments. <a id="c119_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will keep thy statutes: O forsake me not utterly. <a id="c119_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> BETH. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed <em>thereto</em> according to thy word. <a id="c119_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With my whole heart have I sought thee: O let me not wander from thy commandments. <a id="c119_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee. <a id="c119_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed <em>art</em> thou, O LORD: teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. <a id="c119_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as <em>much as</em> in all riches. <a id="c119_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will meditate in thy precepts, and have respect unto thy ways. <a id="c119_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will delight myself in thy statutes: I will not forget thy word. <a id="c119_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> GIMEL. Deal bountifully with thy servant, <em>that</em> I may live, and keep thy word. <a id="c119_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. <a id="c119_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I <em>am</em> a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me. <a id="c119_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My soul breaketh for the longing <em>that it hath</em> unto thy judgments at all times. <a id="c119_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou hast rebuked the proud <em>that are</em> cursed, which do err from thy commandments. <a id="c119_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Princes also did sit <em>and</em> speak against me: <em>but</em> thy servant did meditate in thy statutes. <a id="c119_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thy testimonies also <em>are</em> my delight <em>and</em> my counsellors. <a id="c119_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> DALETH. My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word. <a id="c119_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk of thy wondrous works. <a id="c119_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My soul melteth for heaviness: strengthen thou me according unto thy word. <a id="c119_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law graciously. <a id="c119_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I have chosen the way of truth: thy judgments have I laid <em>before me</em>. <a id="c119_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O LORD, put me not to shame. <a id="c119_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge my heart. <a id="c119_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> HE. Teach me, O LORD, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it <em>unto</em> the end. <a id="c119_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall observe it with <em>my</em> whole heart. <a id="c119_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I delight. <a id="c119_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness. <a id="c119_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; <em>and</em> quicken thou me in thy way. <a id="c119_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who <em>is devoted</em> to thy fear. <a id="c119_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Turn away my reproach which I fear: for thy judgments <em>are</em> good. <a id="c119_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy righteousness. <a id="c119_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> VAU. Let thy mercies come also unto me, O LORD, <em>even</em> thy salvation, according to thy word. <a id="c119_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me: for I trust in thy word. <a id="c119_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in thy judgments. <a id="c119_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> So shall I keep thy law continually for ever and ever. <a id="c119_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts. <a id="c119_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed. <a id="c119_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved. <a id="c119_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes. <a id="c119_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> ZAIN. Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope. <a id="c119_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> This <em>is</em> my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath quickened me. <a id="c119_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> The proud have had me greatly in derision: <em>yet</em> have I not declined from thy law. <a id="c119_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> I remembered thy judgments of old, O LORD; and have comforted myself. <a id="c119_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law. <a id="c119_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage. <a id="c119_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> I have remembered thy name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept thy law. <a id="c119_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> This I had, because I kept thy precepts. <a id="c119_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> CHETH. <em>Thou art</em> my portion, O LORD: I have said that I would keep thy words. <a id="c119_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> I intreated thy favour with <em>my</em> whole heart: be merciful unto me according to thy word. <a id="c119_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments. <a id="c119_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> The bands of the wicked have robbed me: <em>but</em> I have not forgotten thy law. <a id="c119_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments. <a id="c119_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> I <em>am</em> a companion of all <em>them</em> that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts. <a id="c119_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> The earth, O LORD, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> TETH. Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O LORD, according unto thy word. <a id="c119_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments. <a id="c119_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word. <a id="c119_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> Thou <em>art</em> good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> The proud have forged a lie against me: <em>but</em> I will keep thy precepts with <em>my</em> whole heart. <a id="c119_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> Their heart is as fat as grease; <em>but</em> I delight in thy law. <a id="c119_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> <em>It is</em> good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes. <a id="c119_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> The law of thy mouth <em>is</em> better unto me than thousands of gold and silver. <a id="c119_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> JOD. Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments. <a id="c119_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in thy word. <a id="c119_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> I know, O LORD, that thy judgments <em>are</em> right, and <em>that</em> thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me. <a id="c119_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to thy word unto thy servant. <a id="c119_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law <em>is</em> my delight. <a id="c119_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: <em>but</em> I will meditate in thy precepts. <a id="c119_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have known thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed. <a id="c119_v81"></a><span class="vn">81</span> CAPH. My soul fainteth for thy salvation: <em>but</em> I hope in thy word. <a id="c119_v82"></a><span class="vn">82</span> Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me? <a id="c119_v83"></a><span class="vn">83</span> For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; <em>yet</em> do I not forget thy statutes. <a id="c119_v84"></a><span class="vn">84</span> How many <em>are</em> the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me? <a id="c119_v85"></a><span class="vn">85</span> The proud have digged pits for me, which <em>are</em> not after thy law. <a id="c119_v86"></a><span class="vn">86</span> All thy commandments <em>are</em> faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help thou me. <a id="c119_v87"></a><span class="vn">87</span> They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not thy precepts. <a id="c119_v88"></a><span class="vn">88</span> Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth. <a id="c119_v89"></a><span class="vn">89</span> LAMED. For ever, O LORD, thy word is settled in heaven. <a id="c119_v90"></a><span class="vn">90</span> Thy faithfulness <em>is</em> unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abideth. <a id="c119_v91"></a><span class="vn">91</span> They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all <em>are</em> thy servants. <a id="c119_v92"></a><span class="vn">92</span> Unless thy law <em>had been</em> my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction. <a id="c119_v93"></a><span class="vn">93</span> I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened me. <a id="c119_v94"></a><span class="vn">94</span> I <em>am</em> thine, save me; for I have sought thy precepts. <a id="c119_v95"></a><span class="vn">95</span> The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: <em>but</em> I will consider thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v96"></a><span class="vn">96</span> I have seen an end of all perfection: <em>but</em> thy commandment <em>is</em> exceeding broad. <a id="c119_v97"></a><span class="vn">97</span> MEM. O how love I thy law! it <em>is</em> my meditation all the day. <a id="c119_v98"></a><span class="vn">98</span> Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they <em>are</em> ever with me. <a id="c119_v99"></a><span class="vn">99</span> I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies <em>are</em> my meditation. <a id="c119_v100"></a><span class="vn">100</span> I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts. <a id="c119_v101"></a><span class="vn">101</span> I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word. <a id="c119_v102"></a><span class="vn">102</span> I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me. <a id="c119_v103"></a><span class="vn">103</span> How sweet are thy words unto my taste! <em>yea, sweeter</em> than honey to my mouth! <a id="c119_v104"></a><span class="vn">104</span> Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way. <a id="c119_v105"></a><span class="vn">105</span> NUN. Thy word <em>is</em> a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path. <a id="c119_v106"></a><span class="vn">106</span> I have sworn, and I will perform <em>it</em>, that I will keep thy righteous judgments. <a id="c119_v107"></a><span class="vn">107</span> I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according unto thy word. <a id="c119_v108"></a><span class="vn">108</span> Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me thy judgments. <a id="c119_v109"></a><span class="vn">109</span> My soul <em>is</em> continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy law. <a id="c119_v110"></a><span class="vn">110</span> The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy precepts. <a id="c119_v111"></a><span class="vn">111</span> Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they <em>are</em> the rejoicing of my heart. <a id="c119_v112"></a><span class="vn">112</span> I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway, <em>even unto</em> the end. <a id="c119_v113"></a><span class="vn">113</span> SAMECH. I hate <em>vain</em> thoughts: but thy law do I love. <a id="c119_v114"></a><span class="vn">114</span> Thou <em>art</em> my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word. <a id="c119_v115"></a><span class="vn">115</span> Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God. <a id="c119_v116"></a><span class="vn">116</span> Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope. <a id="c119_v117"></a><span class="vn">117</span> Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually. <a id="c119_v118"></a><span class="vn">118</span> Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes: for their deceit <em>is</em> falsehood. <a id="c119_v119"></a><span class="vn">119</span> Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth <em>like</em> dross: therefore I love thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v120"></a><span class="vn">120</span> My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments. <a id="c119_v121"></a><span class="vn">121</span> AIN. I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors. <a id="c119_v122"></a><span class="vn">122</span> Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress me. <a id="c119_v123"></a><span class="vn">123</span> Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness. <a id="c119_v124"></a><span class="vn">124</span> Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v125"></a><span class="vn">125</span> I <em>am</em> thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v126"></a><span class="vn">126</span> <em>It is</em> time for <em>thee</em>, LORD, to work: <em>for</em> they have made void thy law. <a id="c119_v127"></a><span class="vn">127</span> Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold. <a id="c119_v128"></a><span class="vn">128</span> Therefore I esteem all <em>thy</em> precepts <em>concerning</em> all <em>things to be</em> right; <em>and</em> I hate every false way. <a id="c119_v129"></a><span class="vn">129</span> PE. Thy testimonies <em>are</em> wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them. <a id="c119_v130"></a><span class="vn">130</span> The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple. <a id="c119_v131"></a><span class="vn">131</span> I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments. <a id="c119_v132"></a><span class="vn">132</span> Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name. <a id="c119_v133"></a><span class="vn">133</span> Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me. <a id="c119_v134"></a><span class="vn">134</span> Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy precepts. <a id="c119_v135"></a><span class="vn">135</span> Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v136"></a><span class="vn">136</span> Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law. <a id="c119_v137"></a><span class="vn">137</span> TZADDI. Righteous <em>art</em> thou, O LORD, and upright <em>are</em> thy judgments. <a id="c119_v138"></a><span class="vn">138</span> Thy testimonies <em>that</em> thou hast commanded <em>are</em> righteous and very faithful. <a id="c119_v139"></a><span class="vn">139</span> My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words. <a id="c119_v140"></a><span class="vn">140</span> Thy word <em>is</em> very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it. <a id="c119_v141"></a><span class="vn">141</span> I <em>am</em> small and despised: <em>yet</em> do not I forget thy precepts. <a id="c119_v142"></a><span class="vn">142</span> Thy righteousness <em>is</em> an everlasting righteousness, and thy law <em>is</em> the truth. <a id="c119_v143"></a><span class="vn">143</span> Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: <em>yet</em> thy commandments <em>are</em> my delights. <a id="c119_v144"></a><span class="vn">144</span> The righteousness of thy testimonies <em>is</em> everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live. <a id="c119_v145"></a><span class="vn">145</span> KOPH. I cried with <em>my</em> whole heart; hear me, O LORD: I will keep thy statutes. <a id="c119_v146"></a><span class="vn">146</span> I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v147"></a><span class="vn">147</span> I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy word. <a id="c119_v148"></a><span class="vn">148</span> Mine eyes prevent the <em>night</em> watches, that I might meditate in thy word. <a id="c119_v149"></a><span class="vn">149</span> Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: O LORD, quicken me according to thy judgment. <a id="c119_v150"></a><span class="vn">150</span> They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law. <a id="c119_v151"></a><span class="vn">151</span> Thou <em>art</em> near, O LORD; and all thy commandments <em>are</em> truth. <a id="c119_v152"></a><span class="vn">152</span> Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them for ever. <a id="c119_v153"></a><span class="vn">153</span> RESH. Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget thy law. <a id="c119_v154"></a><span class="vn">154</span> Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy word. <a id="c119_v155"></a><span class="vn">155</span> Salvation <em>is</em> far from the wicked: for they seek not thy statutes. <a id="c119_v156"></a><span class="vn">156</span> Great <em>are</em> thy tender mercies, O LORD: quicken me according to thy judgments. <a id="c119_v157"></a><span class="vn">157</span> Many <em>are</em> my persecutors and mine enemies; <em>yet</em> do I not decline from thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v158"></a><span class="vn">158</span> I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word. <a id="c119_v159"></a><span class="vn">159</span> Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O LORD, according to thy lovingkindness. <a id="c119_v160"></a><span class="vn">160</span> Thy word <em>is</em> true <em>from</em> the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c119_v161"></a><span class="vn">161</span> SCHIN. Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word. <a id="c119_v162"></a><span class="vn">162</span> I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil. <a id="c119_v163"></a><span class="vn">163</span> I hate and abhor lying: <em>but</em> thy law do I love. <a id="c119_v164"></a><span class="vn">164</span> Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments. <a id="c119_v165"></a><span class="vn">165</span> Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them. <a id="c119_v166"></a><span class="vn">166</span> LORD, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments. <a id="c119_v167"></a><span class="vn">167</span> My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly. <a id="c119_v168"></a><span class="vn">168</span> I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways <em>are</em> before thee. <a id="c119_v169"></a><span class="vn">169</span> TAU. Let my cry come near before thee, O LORD: give me understanding according to thy word. <a id="c119_v170"></a><span class="vn">170</span> Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word. <a id="c119_v171"></a><span class="vn">171</span> My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v172"></a><span class="vn">172</span> My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments <em>are</em> righteousness. <a id="c119_v173"></a><span class="vn">173</span> Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts. <a id="c119_v174"></a><span class="vn">174</span> I have longed for thy salvation, O LORD; and thy law <em>is</em> my delight. <a id="c119_v175"></a><span class="vn">175</span> Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me. <a id="c119_v176"></a><span class="vn">176</span> I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments.

</body>
</html>