<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 80</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 80</h2>

<a id="c80_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Shoshannimeduth, A Psalm of Asaph.</b> Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; thou that dwellest <em>between</em> the cherubims, shine forth. <a id="c80_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength, and come <em>and</em> save us. <a id="c80_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. <a id="c80_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? <a id="c80_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears to drink in great measure. <a id="c80_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies laugh among themselves. <a id="c80_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved. <a id="c80_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it. <a id="c80_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou preparedst <em>room</em> before it, and didst cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land. <a id="c80_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof <em>were like</em> the goodly cedars. <a id="c80_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river. <a id="c80_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why hast thou <em>then</em> broken down her hedges, so that all they which pass by the way do pluck her? <a id="c80_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it. <a id="c80_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine; <a id="c80_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch <em>that</em> thou madest strong for thyself. <a id="c80_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> <em>It is</em> burned with fire, <em>it is</em> cut down: they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance. <a id="c80_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of man <em>whom</em> thou madest strong for thyself. <a id="c80_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call upon thy name. <a id="c80_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Turn us again, O LORD God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.

</body>
</html>