<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 16</h2>

<a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>Michtam of David.</b> Preserve me, O God: for in thee do I put my trust. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> <em>O my soul</em>, thou hast said unto the LORD, Thou <em>art</em> my Lord: my goodness <em>extendeth</em> not to thee; <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> <em>But</em> to the saints that <em>are</em> in the earth, and <em>to</em> the excellent, in whom <em>is</em> all my delight. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their sorrows shall be multiplied <em>that</em> hasten <em>after</em> another <em>god</em>: their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names into my lips. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The LORD <em>is</em> the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou maintainest my lot. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant <em>places</em>; yea, I have a goodly heritage. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will bless the LORD, who hath given me counsel: my reins also instruct me in the night seasons. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have set the LORD always before me: because <em>he is</em> at my right hand, I shall not be moved. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also shall rest in hope. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence <em>is</em> fulness of joy; at thy right hand <em>there are</em> pleasures for evermore.

</body>
</html>