<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 73</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 73</h2>

<a id="c73_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Psalm of Asaph.</b> Truly God <em>is</em> good to Israel, <em>even</em> to such as are of a clean heart. <a id="c73_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped. <a id="c73_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I was envious at the foolish, <em>when</em> I saw the prosperity of the wicked. <a id="c73_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For <em>there are</em> no bands in their death: but their strength <em>is</em> firm. <a id="c73_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They <em>are</em> not in trouble <em>as other</em> men; neither are they plagued like <em>other</em> men. <a id="c73_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence covereth them <em>as</em> a garment. <a id="c73_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish. <a id="c73_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are corrupt, and speak wickedly <em>concerning</em> oppression: they speak loftily. <a id="c73_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth. <a id="c73_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full <em>cup</em> are wrung out to them. <a id="c73_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the most High? <a id="c73_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, these <em>are</em> the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase <em>in</em> riches. <a id="c73_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Verily I have cleansed my heart <em>in</em> vain, and washed my hands in innocency. <a id="c73_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning. <a id="c73_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend <em>against</em> the generation of thy children. <a id="c73_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When I thought to know this, it <em>was</em> too painful for me; <a id="c73_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Until I went into the sanctuary of God; <em>then</em> understood I their end. <a id="c73_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst them down into destruction. <a id="c73_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How are they <em>brought</em> into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors. <a id="c73_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> As a dream when <em>one</em> awaketh; <em>so</em>, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image. <a id="c73_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins. <a id="c73_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So foolish <em>was</em> I, and ignorant: I was <em>as</em> a beast before thee. <a id="c73_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Nevertheless I <em>am</em> continually with thee: thou hast holden <em>me</em> by my right hand. <a id="c73_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me <em>to</em> glory. <a id="c73_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whom have I in heaven <em>but thee</em>? and <em>there is</em> none upon earth <em>that</em> I desire beside thee. <a id="c73_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> My flesh and my heart faileth: <em>but</em> God <em>is</em> the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever. <a id="c73_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee. <a id="c73_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But <em>it is</em> good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord GOD, that I may declare all thy works.

</body>
</html>