<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 37</h2>

<a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> of David.</b> Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. <a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb. <a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Trust in the LORD, and do good; <em>so</em> shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. <a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Delight thyself also in the LORD; and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. <a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Commit thy way unto the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall bring <em>it</em> to pass. <a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday. <a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. <a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. <a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the LORD, they shall inherit the earth. <a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For yet a little while, and the wicked <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em>: yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em>. <a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. <a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with his teeth. <a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Lord shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is coming. <a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, <em>and</em> to slay such as be of upright conversation. <a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken. <a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A little that a righteous man hath <em>is</em> better than the riches of many wicked. <a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the LORD upholdeth the righteous. <a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The LORD knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance shall be for ever. <a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied. <a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the LORD <em>shall be</em> as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they consume away. <a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous sheweth mercy, and giveth. <a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For <em>such as be</em> blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and <em>they that be</em> cursed of him shall be cut off. <a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The steps of a <em>good</em> man are ordered by the LORD: and he delighteth in his way. <a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the LORD upholdeth <em>him with</em> his hand. <a id="c37_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have been young, and <em>now</em> am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. <a id="c37_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> <em>He is</em> ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed <em>is</em> blessed. <a id="c37_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore. <a id="c37_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the LORD loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off. <a id="c37_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for ever. <a id="c37_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom, and his tongue talketh of judgment. <a id="c37_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The law of his God <em>is</em> in his heart; none of his steps shall slide. <a id="c37_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him. <a id="c37_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged. <a id="c37_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Wait on the LORD, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see <em>it</em>. <a id="c37_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a green bay tree. <a id="c37_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Yet he passed away, and, lo, he <em>was</em> not: yea, I sought him, but he could not be found. <a id="c37_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Mark the perfect <em>man</em>, and behold the upright: for the end of <em>that</em> man <em>is</em> peace. <a id="c37_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of the wicked shall be cut off. <a id="c37_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But the salvation of the righteous <em>is</em> of the LORD: <em>he is</em> their strength in the time of trouble. <a id="c37_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the LORD shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.

</body>
</html>