<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 58</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 58</h2>

<a id="c58_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, Altaschith, Michtam of David.</b> Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge uprightly, O ye sons of men? <a id="c58_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; ye weigh the violence of your hands in the earth. <a id="c58_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as they be born, speaking lies. <a id="c58_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their poison <em>is</em> like the poison of a serpent: <em>they are</em> like the deaf adder <em>that</em> stoppeth her ear; <a id="c58_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Which will not hearken to the voice of charmers, charming never so wisely. <a id="c58_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great teeth of the young lions, O LORD. <a id="c58_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let them melt away as waters <em>which</em> run continually: <em>when</em> he bendeth <em>his bow to shoot</em> his arrows, let them be as cut in pieces. <a id="c58_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As a snail <em>which</em> melteth, let <em>every one of them</em> pass away: <em>like</em> the untimely birth of a woman, <em>that</em> they may not see the sun. <a id="c58_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Before your pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as with a whirlwind, both living, and in <em>his</em> wrath. <a id="c58_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance: he shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked. <a id="c58_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So that a man shall say, Verily <em>there is</em> a reward for the righteous: verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth.

</body>
</html>