<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 63</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 63</h2>

<a id="c63_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Psalm of David, when he was in the wilderness of Judah.</b> O God, thou <em>art</em> my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is; <a id="c63_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To see thy power and thy glory, so <em>as</em> I have seen thee in the sanctuary. <a id="c63_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Because thy lovingkindness <em>is</em> better than life, my lips shall praise thee. <a id="c63_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in thy name. <a id="c63_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My soul shall be satisfied as <em>with</em> marrow and fatness; and my mouth shall praise <em>thee</em> with joyful lips: <a id="c63_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When I remember thee upon my bed, <em>and</em> meditate on thee in the <em>night</em> watches. <a id="c63_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. <a id="c63_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me. <a id="c63_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But those <em>that</em> seek my soul, to destroy <em>it</em>, shall go into the lower parts of the earth. <a id="c63_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes. <a id="c63_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.

</body>
</html>