<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 77</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 77</h2>

<a id="c77_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, to Jeduthun, A Psalm of Asaph.</b> I cried unto God with my voice, <em>even</em> unto God with my voice; and he gave ear unto me. <a id="c77_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted. <a id="c77_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. Selah. <a id="c77_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot speak. <a id="c77_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times. <a id="c77_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine own heart: and my spirit made diligent search. <a id="c77_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more? <a id="c77_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth <em>his</em> promise fail for evermore? <a id="c77_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies? Selah. <a id="c77_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I said, This <em>is</em> my infirmity: <em>but I will remember</em> the years of the right hand of the most High. <a id="c77_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will remember the works of the LORD: surely I will remember thy wonders of old. <a id="c77_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings. <a id="c77_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy way, O God, <em>is</em> in the sanctuary: who <em>is so</em> great a God as <em>our</em> God? <a id="c77_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou <em>art</em> the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy strength among the people. <a id="c77_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou hast with <em>thine</em> arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah. <a id="c77_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were afraid: the depths also were troubled. <a id="c77_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine arrows also went abroad. <a id="c77_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The voice of thy thunder <em>was</em> in the heaven: the lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook. <a id="c77_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy way <em>is</em> in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known. <a id="c77_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.

</body>
</html>