<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 89</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 89</h2>

<a id="c89_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>Maschil of Ethan the Ezrahite.</b> I will sing of the mercies of the LORD for ever: with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations. <a id="c89_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens. <a id="c89_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant, <a id="c89_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Selah. <a id="c89_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O LORD: thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints. <a id="c89_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For who in the heaven can be compared unto the LORD? <em>who</em> among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the LORD? <a id="c89_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all <em>them that are</em> about him. <a id="c89_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O LORD God of hosts, who <em>is</em> a strong LORD like unto thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee? <a id="c89_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them. <a id="c89_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm. <a id="c89_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heavens <em>are</em> thine, the earth also <em>is</em> thine: <em>as for</em> the world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them. <a id="c89_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The north and the south thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name. <a id="c89_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, <em>and</em> high is thy right hand. <a id="c89_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Justice and judgment <em>are</em> the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face. <a id="c89_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blessed <em>is</em> the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O LORD, in the light of thy countenance. <a id="c89_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted. <a id="c89_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For thou <em>art</em> the glory of their strength: and in thy favour our horn shall be exalted. <a id="c89_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the LORD <em>is</em> our defence; and the Holy One of Israel <em>is</em> our king. <a id="c89_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have laid help upon <em>one that is</em> mighty; I have exalted <em>one</em> chosen out of the people. <a id="c89_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him: <a id="c89_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen him. <a id="c89_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him. <a id="c89_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him. <a id="c89_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But my faithfulness and my mercy <em>shall be</em> with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted. <a id="c89_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. <a id="c89_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He shall cry unto me, Thou <em>art</em> my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation. <a id="c89_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Also I will make him <em>my</em> firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth. <a id="c89_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him. <a id="c89_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> His seed also will I make <em>to endure</em> for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven. <a id="c89_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments; <a id="c89_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments; <a id="c89_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. <a id="c89_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail. <a id="c89_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips. <a id="c89_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David. <a id="c89_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me. <a id="c89_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> It shall be established for ever as the moon, and <em>as</em> a faithful witness in heaven. Selah. <a id="c89_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with thine anointed. <a id="c89_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant: thou hast profaned his crown <em>by casting it</em> to the ground. <a id="c89_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his strong holds to ruin. <a id="c89_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbours. <a id="c89_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice. <a id="c89_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle. <a id="c89_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground. <a id="c89_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him with shame. Selah. <a id="c89_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> How long, LORD? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath burn like fire? <a id="c89_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men in vain? <a id="c89_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> What man <em>is he that</em> liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah. <a id="c89_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Lord, where <em>are</em> thy former lovingkindnesses, <em>which</em> thou swarest unto David in thy truth? <a id="c89_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; <em>how</em> I do bear in my bosom <em>the reproach of</em> all the mighty people; <a id="c89_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O LORD; wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed. <a id="c89_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD for evermore. Amen, and Amen.

</body>
</html>