<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Muthlabben, A Psalm of David.</b> I will praise <em>thee</em>, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will shew forth all thy marvellous works. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy name, O thou most High. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When mine enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at thy presence. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; thou satest in the throne judging right. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked, thou hast put out their name for ever and ever. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O thou enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and thou hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the LORD shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne for judgment. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sing praises to the LORD, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among the people his doings. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he forgetteth not the cry of the humble. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Have mercy upon me, O LORD; consider my trouble <em>which I suffer</em> of them that hate me, thou that liftest me up from the gates of death: <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The heathen are sunk down in the pit <em>that</em> they made: in the net which they hid is their own foot taken. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The LORD is known <em>by</em> the judgment <em>which</em> he executeth: the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The wicked shall be turned into hell, <em>and</em> all the nations that forget God. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall <em>not</em> perish for ever. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in thy sight. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Put them in fear, O LORD: <em>that</em> the nations may know themselves <em>to be but</em> men. Selah.

</body>
</html>