<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 31</h2>

<a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.</b> In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness. <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong rock, for an house of defence to save me. <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou <em>art</em> my rock and my fortress; therefore for thy name's sake lead me, and guide me. <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: for thou <em>art</em> my strength. <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Into thine hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O LORD God of truth. <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the LORD. <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities; <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a large room. <a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in trouble: mine eye is consumed with grief, <em>yea</em>, my soul and my belly. <a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed. <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me without fled from me. <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel. <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have heard the slander of many: fear <em>was</em> on every side: while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life. <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I trusted in thee, O LORD: I said, Thou <em>art</em> my God. <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My times <em>are</em> in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me. <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me for thy mercies' sake. <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called upon thee: let the wicked be ashamed, <em>and</em> let them be silent in the grave. <a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous. <a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> <em>Oh</em> how great <em>is</em> thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee; <em>which</em> thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men! <a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. <a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD: for he hath shewed me his marvellous kindness in a strong city. <a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee. <a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> O love the LORD, all ye his saints: <em>for</em> the LORD preserveth the faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer. <a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the LORD.

</body>
</html>