<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 17</h2>

<a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Prayer of David.</b> Hear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, <em>that goeth</em> not out of feigned lips. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; let thine eyes behold the things that are equal. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited <em>me</em> in the night; thou hast tried me, <em>and</em> shalt find nothing; I am purposed <em>that</em> my mouth shall not transgress. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept <em>me from</em> the paths of the destroyer. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hold up my goings in thy paths, <em>that</em> my footsteps slip not. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline thine ear unto me, <em>and hear</em> my speech. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy right hand them which put their trust <em>in thee</em> from those that rise up <em>against them</em>. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy wings, <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the wicked that oppress me, <em>from</em> my deadly enemies, <em>who</em> compass me about. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak proudly. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their eyes bowing down to the earth; <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Like as a lion <em>that</em> is greedy of his prey, and as it were a young lion lurking in secret places. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Arise, O LORD, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul from the wicked, <em>which is</em> thy sword: <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From men <em>which are</em> thy hand, O LORD, from men of the world, <em>which have</em> their portion in <em>this</em> life, and whose belly thou fillest with thy hid <em>treasure</em>: they are full of children, and leave the rest of their <em>substance</em> to their babes. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.

</body>
</html>