<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 64</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 64</h2>

<a id="c64_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.</b> Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy. <a id="c64_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity: <a id="c64_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who whet their tongue like a sword, <em>and</em> bend <em>their bows to shoot</em> their arrows, <em>even</em> bitter words: <a id="c64_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not. <a id="c64_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They encourage themselves <em>in</em> an evil matter: they commune of laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them? <a id="c64_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search: both the inward <em>thought</em> of every one <em>of them</em>, and the heart, <em>is</em> deep. <a id="c64_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But God shall shoot at them <em>with</em> an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded. <a id="c64_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all that see them shall flee away. <a id="c64_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for they shall wisely consider of his doing. <a id="c64_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall trust in him; and all the upright in heart shall glory.

</body>
</html>