<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 18</h2>

<a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, <em>A Psalm</em> of David, the servant of the LORD, who spake unto the LORD the words of this song in the day <em>that</em> the LORD delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul: And he said,</b> I will love thee, O LORD, my strength. <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The LORD <em>is</em> my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, <em>and</em> my high tower. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will call upon the LORD, <em>who is worthy</em> to be praised: so shall I be saved from mine enemies. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death prevented me. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In my distress I called upon the LORD, and cried unto my God: he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, <em>even</em> into his ears. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness <em>was</em> under his feet. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him <em>were</em> dark waters <em>and</em> thick clouds of the skies. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> At the brightness <em>that was</em> before him his thick clouds passed, hail <em>stones</em> and coals of fire. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his voice; hail <em>stones</em> and coals of fire. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out lightnings, and discomfited them. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated me: for they were too strong for me. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my stay. <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me, because he delighted in me. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For all his judgments <em>were</em> before me, and I did not put away his statutes from me. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine iniquity. <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore hath the LORD recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight. <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful; with an upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright; <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward thou wilt shew thyself froward. <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down high looks. <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For thou wilt light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten my darkness. <a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I leaped over a wall. <a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> <em>As for</em> God, his way <em>is</em> perfect: the word of the LORD is tried: he <em>is</em> a buckler to all those that trust in him. <a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For who <em>is</em> God save the LORD? or who <em>is</em> a rock save our God? <a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> <em>It is</em> God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way perfect. <a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He maketh my feet like hinds' <em>feet</em>, and setteth me upon my high places. <a id="c18_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine arms. <a id="c18_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great. <a id="c18_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip. <a id="c18_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I turn again till they were consumed. <a id="c18_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are fallen under my feet. <a id="c18_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me. <a id="c18_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might destroy them that hate me. <a id="c18_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> They cried, but <em>there was</em> none to save <em>them: even</em> unto the LORD, but he answered them not. <a id="c18_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did cast them out as the dirt in the streets. <a id="c18_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; <em>and</em> thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people <em>whom</em> I have not known shall serve me. <a id="c18_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers shall submit themselves unto me. <a id="c18_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close places. <a id="c18_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The LORD liveth; and blessed <em>be</em> my rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted. <a id="c18_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> <em>It is</em> God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me. <a id="c18_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up above those that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the violent man. <a id="c18_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the heathen, and sing praises unto thy name. <a id="c18_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sheweth mercy to his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.

</body>
</html>