<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 35</h2>

<a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> of David.</b> Plead <em>my cause</em>, O LORD, with them that strive with me: fight against them that fight against me. <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help. <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Draw out also the spear, and stop <em>the way</em> against them that persecute me: say unto my soul, I <em>am</em> thy salvation. <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul: let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the LORD chase <em>them</em>. <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the LORD persecute them. <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For without cause have they hid for me their net <em>in</em> a pit, <em>which</em> without cause they have digged for my soul. <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall. <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD: it shall rejoice in his salvation. <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All my bones shall say, LORD, who <em>is</em> like unto thee, which deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him? <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge <em>things</em> that I knew not. <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They rewarded me evil for good <em>to</em> the spoiling of my soul. <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing <em>was</em> sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own bosom. <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I behaved myself as though <em>he had been</em> my friend <em>or</em> brother: I bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth <em>for his</em> mother. <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: <em>yea</em>, the abjects gathered themselves together against me, and I knew <em>it</em> not; they did tear <em>me</em>, and ceased not: <a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with their teeth. <a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their destructions, my darling from the lions. <a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise thee among much people. <a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: <em>neither</em> let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause. <a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters against <em>them that are</em> quiet in the land. <a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, <em>and</em> said, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen <em>it</em>. <a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> <em>This</em> thou hast seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not far from me. <a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, <em>even</em> unto my cause, my God and my Lord. <a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Judge me, O LORD my God, according to thy righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me. <a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let them not say, We have swallowed him up. <a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour that magnify <em>themselves</em> against me. <a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant. <a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness <em>and</em> of thy praise all the day long.

</body>
</html>