<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 109</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 109</h2>

<a id="c109_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.</b> Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise; <a id="c109_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue. <a id="c109_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause. <a id="c109_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For my love they are my adversaries: but I <em>give myself unto</em> prayer. <a id="c109_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love. <a id="c109_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right hand. <a id="c109_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become sin. <a id="c109_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let his days be few; <em>and</em> let another take his office. <a id="c109_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow. <a id="c109_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek <em>their bread</em> also out of their desolate places. <a id="c109_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour. <a id="c109_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children. <a id="c109_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let his posterity be cut off; <em>and</em> in the generation following let their name be blotted out. <a id="c109_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the LORD; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. <a id="c109_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth. <a id="c109_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart. <a id="c109_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him. <a id="c109_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones. <a id="c109_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let it be unto him as the garment <em>which</em> covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith he is girded continually. <a id="c109_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> <em>Let</em> this <em>be</em> the reward of mine adversaries from the LORD, and of them that speak evil against my soul. <a id="c109_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But do thou for me, O GOD the Lord, for thy name's sake: because thy mercy <em>is</em> good, deliver thou me. <a id="c109_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I <em>am</em> poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me. <a id="c109_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and down as the locust. <a id="c109_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of fatness. <a id="c109_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I became also a reproach unto them: <em>when</em> they looked upon me they shaked their heads. <a id="c109_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Help me, O LORD my God: O save me according to thy mercy: <a id="c109_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> That they may know that this <em>is</em> thy hand; <em>that</em> thou, LORD, hast done it. <a id="c109_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Let them curse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be ashamed; but let thy servant rejoice. <a id="c109_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle. <a id="c109_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude. <a id="c109_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save <em>him</em> from those that condemn his soul.

</body>
</html>