<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 32</h2>

<a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> of David, Maschil.</b> Blessed <em>is he whose</em> transgression <em>is</em> forgiven, <em>whose</em> sin <em>is</em> covered. <a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed <em>is</em> the man unto whom the LORD imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit <em>there is</em> no guile. <a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long. <a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Selah. <a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD; and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah. <a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they shall not come nigh unto him. <a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou <em>art</em> my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble; thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah. <a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go: I will guide thee with mine eye. <a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be ye not as the horse, <em>or</em> as the mule, <em>which</em> have no understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee. <a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Many sorrows <em>shall be</em> to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the LORD, mercy shall compass him about. <a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, ye righteous: and shout for joy, all <em>ye that are</em> upright in heart.

</body>
</html>