<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 132</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 132</h2>

<a id="c132_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Song of degrees. LORD, remember David, <em>and</em> all his afflictions: <a id="c132_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How he sware unto the LORD, <em>and</em> vowed unto the mighty <em>God</em> of Jacob; <a id="c132_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed; <a id="c132_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will not give sleep to mine eyes, <em>or</em> slumber to mine eyelids, <a id="c132_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Until I find out a place for the LORD, an habitation for the mighty <em>God</em> of Jacob. <a id="c132_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the wood. <a id="c132_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his footstool. <a id="c132_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Arise, O LORD, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength. <a id="c132_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy saints shout for joy. <a id="c132_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thy servant David's sake turn not away the face of thine anointed. <a id="c132_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The LORD hath sworn <em>in</em> truth unto David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne. <a id="c132_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thy children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also sit upon thy throne for evermore. <a id="c132_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For the LORD hath chosen Zion; he hath desired <em>it</em> for his habitation. <a id="c132_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> This <em>is</em> my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it. <a id="c132_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread. <a id="c132_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will also clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints shall shout aloud for joy. <a id="c132_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed. <a id="c132_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His enemies will I clothe with shame: but upon himself shall his crown flourish.

</body>
</html>