<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 103</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 103</h2>

<a id="c103_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> of David.</b> Bless the LORD, O my soul: and all that is within me, <em>bless</em> his holy name. <a id="c103_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits: <a id="c103_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases; <a id="c103_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies; <a id="c103_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who satisfieth thy mouth with good <em>things; so that</em> thy youth is renewed like the eagle's. <a id="c103_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The LORD executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. <a id="c103_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel. <a id="c103_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The LORD <em>is</em> merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. <a id="c103_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He will not always chide: neither will he keep <em>his anger</em> for ever. <a id="c103_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. <a id="c103_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For as the heaven is high above the earth, <em>so</em> great is his mercy toward them that fear him. <a id="c103_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As far as the east is from the west, <em>so</em> far hath he removed our transgressions from us. <a id="c103_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Like as a father pitieth <em>his</em> children, <em>so</em> the LORD pitieth them that fear him. <a id="c103_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we <em>are</em> dust. <a id="c103_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> <em>As for</em> man, his days <em>are</em> as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth. <a id="c103_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more. <a id="c103_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the mercy of the LORD <em>is</em> from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children; <a id="c103_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them. <a id="c103_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The LORD hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom ruleth over all. <a id="c103_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Bless the LORD, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word. <a id="c103_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bless ye the LORD, all <em>ye</em> his hosts; <em>ye</em> ministers of his, that do his pleasure. <a id="c103_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Bless the LORD, all his works in all places of his dominion: bless the LORD, O my soul.

</body>
</html>