<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 57</h2>

<a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, Altaschith, Michtam of David, when he fled from Saul in the cave.</b> Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul trusteth in thee: yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge, until <em>these</em> calamities be overpast. <a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will cry unto God most high; unto God that performeth <em>all things</em> for me. <a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He shall send from heaven, and save me <em>from</em> the reproach of him that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth. <a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My soul <em>is</em> among lions: <em>and</em> I lie <em>even among</em> them that are set on fire, <em>even</em> the sons of men, whose teeth <em>are</em> spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword. <a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; <em>let</em> thy glory <em>be</em> above all the earth. <a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is bowed down: they have digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are fallen <em>themselves</em>. Selah. <a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give praise. <a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I <em>myself</em> will awake early. <a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sing unto thee among the nations. <a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thy mercy <em>is</em> great unto the heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds. <a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: <em>let</em> thy glory <em>be</em> above all the earth.

</body>
</html>