<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 49</h2>

<a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm for the sons of Korah.</b> Hear this, all <em>ye</em> people; give ear, all <em>ye</em> inhabitants of the world: <a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Both low and high, rich and poor, together. <a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart <em>shall be</em> of understanding. <a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying upon the harp. <a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, <em>when</em> the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about? <a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches; <a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> None <em>of them</em> can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him: <a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> (For the redemption of their soul <em>is</em> precious, and it ceaseth for ever:) <a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That he should still live for ever, <em>and</em> not see corruption. <a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he seeth <em>that</em> wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others. <a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their inward thought <em>is, that</em> their houses <em>shall continue</em> for ever, <em>and</em> their dwelling places to all generations; they call <em>their</em> lands after their own names. <a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Nevertheless man <em>being</em> in honour abideth not: he is like the beasts <em>that</em> perish. <a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This their way <em>is</em> their folly: yet their posterity approve their sayings. Selah. <a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling. <a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he shall receive me. Selah. <a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased; <a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall not descend after him. <a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and <em>men</em> will praise thee, when thou doest well to thyself. <a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never see light. <a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Man <em>that is</em> in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts <em>that</em> perish.

</body>
</html>