<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 143</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 143</h2>

<a id="c143_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Psalm of David.</b> Hear my prayer, O LORD, give ear to my supplications: in thy faithfulness answer me, <em>and</em> in thy righteousness. <a id="c143_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight shall no man living be justified. <a id="c143_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead. <a id="c143_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is desolate. <a id="c143_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I remember the days of old; I meditate on all thy works; I muse on the work of thy hands. <a id="c143_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I stretch forth my hands unto thee: my soul <em>thirsteth</em> after thee, as a thirsty land. Selah. <a id="c143_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear me speedily, O LORD: my spirit faileth: hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit. <a id="c143_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cause me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; for in thee do I trust: cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; for I lift up my soul unto thee. <a id="c143_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Deliver me, O LORD, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide me. <a id="c143_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Teach me to do thy will; for thou <em>art</em> my God: thy spirit <em>is</em> good; lead me into the land of uprightness. <a id="c143_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Quicken me, O LORD, for thy name's sake: for thy righteousness' sake bring my soul out of trouble. <a id="c143_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And of thy mercy cut off mine enemies, and destroy all them that afflict my soul: for I <em>am</em> thy servant.

</body>
</html>