<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>Shiggaion of David, which he sang unto the LORD, concerning the words of Cush the Benjamite.</b> O LORD my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me: <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending <em>it</em> in pieces, while <em>there is</em> none to deliver. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O LORD my God, if I have done this; if there be iniquity in my hands; <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea, I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:) <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take <em>it</em>; yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage of mine enemies: and awake for me <em>to</em> the judgment <em>that</em> thou hast commanded. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for their sakes therefore return thou on high. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness, and according to mine integrity <em>that is</em> in me. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My defence <em>is</em> of God, which saveth the upright in heart. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry <em>with the wicked</em> every day. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and made it ready. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch <em>which</em> he made. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own pate. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will sing praise to the name of the LORD most high.

</body>
</html>