<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 51</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 51</h2>

<a id="c51_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet came unto him, after he had gone in to Bathsheba.</b> Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions. <a id="c51_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. <a id="c51_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin <em>is</em> ever before me. <a id="c51_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done <em>this</em> evil in thy sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, <em>and</em> be clear when thou judgest. <a id="c51_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me. <a id="c51_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden <em>part</em> thou shalt make me to know wisdom. <a id="c51_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. <a id="c51_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Make me to hear joy and gladness; <em>that</em> the bones <em>which</em> thou hast broken may rejoice. <a id="c51_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities. <a id="c51_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me. <a id="c51_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me. <a id="c51_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me <em>with thy</em> free spirit. <a id="c51_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> <em>Then</em> will I teach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be converted unto thee. <a id="c51_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation: <em>and</em> my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. <a id="c51_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> O Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall shew forth thy praise. <a id="c51_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give <em>it</em>: thou delightest not in burnt offering. <a id="c51_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sacrifices of God <em>are</em> a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. <a id="c51_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of Jerusalem. <a id="c51_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer bullocks upon thine altar.

</body>
</html>