<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 41</h2>

<a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Psalm of David.</b> Blessed <em>is</em> he that considereth the poor: the LORD will deliver him in time of trouble. <a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The LORD will preserve him, and keep him alive; <em>and</em> he shall be blessed upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemies. <a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The LORD will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing: thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness. <a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I said, LORD, be merciful unto me: heal my soul; for I have sinned against thee. <a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Mine enemies speak evil of me, When shall he die, and his name perish? <a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if he come to see <em>me</em>, he speaketh vanity: his heart gathereth iniquity to itself; <em>when</em> he goeth abroad, he telleth <em>it</em>. <a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they devise my hurt. <a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> An evil disease, <em>say they</em>, cleaveth fast unto him: and <em>now</em> that he lieth he shall rise up no more. <a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up <em>his</em> heel against me. <a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But thou, O LORD, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I may requite them. <a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By this I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me. <a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest me before thy face for ever. <a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD God of Israel from everlasting, and to everlasting. Amen, and Amen.

</body>
</html>