<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 148</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 148</h2>

<a id="c148_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise him in the heights. <a id="c148_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts. <a id="c148_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light. <a id="c148_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that <em>be</em> above the heavens. <a id="c148_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let them praise the name of the LORD: for he commanded, and they were created. <a id="c148_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a decree which shall not pass. <a id="c148_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Praise the LORD from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps: <a id="c148_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Fire, and hail; snow, and vapour; stormy wind fulfilling his word: <a id="c148_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars: <a id="c148_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl: <a id="c148_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth: <a id="c148_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children: <a id="c148_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alone is excellent; his glory <em>is</em> above the earth and heaven. <a id="c148_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; <em>even</em> of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the LORD.

</body>
</html>