<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 66</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 66</h2>

<a id="c66_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, A Song <em>or</em> Psalm.</b> Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands: <a id="c66_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious. <a id="c66_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Say unto God, How terrible <em>art thou in</em> thy works! through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee. <a id="c66_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they shall sing <em>to</em> thy name. Selah. <a id="c66_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Come and see the works of God: <em>he is</em> terrible <em>in his</em> doing toward the children of men. <a id="c66_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He turned the sea into dry <em>land</em>: they went through the flood on foot: there did we rejoice in him. <a id="c66_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah. <a id="c66_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard: <a id="c66_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be moved. <a id="c66_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver is tried. <a id="c66_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our loins. <a id="c66_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy <em>place</em>. <a id="c66_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee my vows, <a id="c66_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was in trouble. <a id="c66_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah. <a id="c66_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Come <em>and</em> hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul. <a id="c66_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue. <a id="c66_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear <em>me</em>: <a id="c66_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> <em>But</em> verily God hath heard <em>me</em>; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer. <a id="c66_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Blessed <em>be</em> God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.

</body>
</html>