<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 72</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 72</h2>

<a id="c72_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b><em>A Psalm</em> for Solomon.</b> Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king's son. <a id="c72_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment. <a id="c72_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness. <a id="c72_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor. <a id="c72_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations. <a id="c72_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers <em>that</em> water the earth. <a id="c72_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth. <a id="c72_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth. <a id="c72_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust. <a id="c72_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. <a id="c72_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him. <a id="c72_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and <em>him</em> that hath no helper. <a id="c72_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy. <a id="c72_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight. <a id="c72_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; <em>and</em> daily shall he be praised. <a id="c72_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and <em>they</em> of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth. <a id="c72_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and <em>men</em> shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed. <a id="c72_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Blessed <em>be</em> the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things. <a id="c72_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And blessed <em>be</em> his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled <em>with</em> his glory; Amen, and Amen. <a id="c72_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.

</body>
</html>