<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 107</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 107</h2>

<a id="c107_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O give thanks unto the LORD, for <em>he is</em> good: for his mercy <em>endureth</em> for ever. <a id="c107_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let the redeemed of the LORD say <em>so</em>, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy; <a id="c107_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south. <a id="c107_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in. <a id="c107_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them. <a id="c107_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, <em>and</em> he delivered them out of their distresses. <a id="c107_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation. <a id="c107_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Oh that <em>men</em> would praise the LORD <em>for</em> his goodness, and <em>for</em> his wonderful works to the children of men! <a id="c107_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness. <a id="c107_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, <em>being</em> bound in affliction and iron; <a id="c107_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most High: <a id="c107_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell down, and <em>there was</em> none to help. <a id="c107_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, <em>and</em> he saved them out of their distresses. <a id="c107_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and brake their bands in sunder. <a id="c107_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Oh that <em>men</em> would praise the LORD <em>for</em> his goodness, and <em>for</em> his wonderful works to the children of men! <a id="c107_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder. <a id="c107_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fools because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted. <a id="c107_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the gates of death. <a id="c107_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, <em>and</em> he saveth them out of their distresses. <a id="c107_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered <em>them</em> from their destructions. <a id="c107_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Oh that <em>men</em> would praise the LORD <em>for</em> his goodness, and <em>for</em> his wonderful works to the children of men! <a id="c107_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing. <a id="c107_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters; <a id="c107_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> These see the works of the LORD, and his wonders in the deep. <a id="c107_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof. <a id="c107_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted because of trouble. <a id="c107_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits' end. <a id="c107_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses. <a id="c107_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still. <a id="c107_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them unto their desired haven. <a id="c107_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Oh that <em>men</em> would praise the LORD <em>for</em> his goodness, and <em>for</em> his wonderful works to the children of men! <a id="c107_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders. <a id="c107_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into dry ground; <a id="c107_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein. <a id="c107_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into watersprings. <a id="c107_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation; <a id="c107_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase. <a id="c107_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffereth not their cattle to decrease. <a id="c107_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Again, they are minished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow. <a id="c107_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, <em>where there is</em> no way. <a id="c107_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh <em>him</em> families like a flock. <a id="c107_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The righteous shall see <em>it</em>, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth. <a id="c107_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Whoso <em>is</em> wise, and will observe these <em>things</em>, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of the LORD.

</body>
</html>