<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 48</h2>

<a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Song <em>and</em> Psalm for the sons of Korah.</b> Great <em>is</em> the LORD, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, <em>in</em> the mountain of his holiness. <a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, <em>is</em> mount Zion, <em>on</em> the sides of the north, the city of the great King. <a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God is known in her palaces for a refuge. <a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together. <a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They saw <em>it, and</em> so they marvelled; they were troubled, <em>and</em> hasted away. <a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Fear took hold upon them there, <em>and</em> pain, as of a woman in travail. <a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind. <a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah. <a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We have thought of thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple. <a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> According to thy name, O God, so <em>is</em> thy praise unto the ends of the earth: thy right hand is full of righteousness. <a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad, because of thy judgments. <a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof. <a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell <em>it</em> to the generation following. <a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For this God <em>is</em> our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide <em>even</em> unto death.

</body>
</html>