<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 45</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 45</h2>

<a id="c45_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Shoshannim, for the sons of Korah, Maschil, A Song of loves.</b> My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I have made touching the king: my tongue <em>is</em> the pen of a ready writer. <a id="c45_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into thy lips: therefore God hath blessed thee for ever. <a id="c45_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Gird thy sword upon <em>thy</em> thigh, O <em>most</em> mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty. <a id="c45_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness <em>and</em> righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things. <a id="c45_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thine arrows <em>are</em> sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; <em>whereby</em> the people fall under thee. <a id="c45_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy throne, O God, <em>is</em> for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom <em>is</em> a right sceptre. <a id="c45_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows. <a id="c45_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All thy garments <em>smell</em> of myrrh, and aloes, <em>and</em> cassia, out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad. <a id="c45_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Kings' daughters <em>were</em> among thy honourable women: upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir. <a id="c45_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy father's house; <a id="c45_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he <em>is</em> thy Lord; and worship thou him. <a id="c45_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the daughter of Tyre <em>shall be there</em> with a gift; <em>even</em> the rich among the people shall intreat thy favour. <a id="c45_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The king's daughter <em>is</em> all glorious within: her clothing <em>is</em> of wrought gold. <a id="c45_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee. <a id="c45_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall enter into the king's palace. <a id="c45_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth. <a id="c45_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations: therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.

</body>
</html>