<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 56</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 56</h2>

<a id="c56_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician upon Jonathelemrechokim, Michtam of David, when the Philistines took him in Gath.</b> Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he fighting daily oppresseth me. <a id="c56_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Mine enemies would daily swallow <em>me</em> up: for <em>they be</em> many that fight against me, O thou most High. <a id="c56_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. <a id="c56_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will not fear what flesh can do unto me. <a id="c56_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts <em>are</em> against me for evil. <a id="c56_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark my steps, when they wait for my soul. <a id="c56_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Shall they escape by iniquity? in <em>thine</em> anger cast down the people, O God. <a id="c56_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle: <em>are they</em> not in thy book? <a id="c56_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When I cry <em>unto thee</em>, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I know; for God <em>is</em> for me. <a id="c56_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In God will I praise <em>his</em> word: in the LORD will I praise <em>his</em> word. <a id="c56_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do unto me. <a id="c56_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thy vows <em>are</em> upon me, O God: I will render praises unto thee. <a id="c56_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For thou hast delivered my soul from death: <em>wilt</em> not <em>thou deliver</em> my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of the living?

</body>
</html>