<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 90</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 90</h2>

<a id="c90_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>A Prayer of Moses the man of God.</b> Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. <a id="c90_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou <em>art</em> God. <a id="c90_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye children of men. <a id="c90_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For a thousand years in thy sight <em>are but</em> as yesterday when it is past, and <em>as</em> a watch in the night. <a id="c90_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are <em>as</em> a sleep: in the morning <em>they are</em> like grass <em>which</em> groweth up. <a id="c90_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down, and withereth. <a id="c90_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled. <a id="c90_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret <em>sins</em> in the light of thy countenance. <a id="c90_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a tale <em>that is told</em>. <a id="c90_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The days of our years <em>are</em> threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength <em>they be</em> fourscore years, yet <em>is</em> their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. <a id="c90_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy fear, <em>so is</em> thy wrath. <a id="c90_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So teach <em>us</em> to number our days, that we may apply <em>our</em> hearts unto wisdom. <a id="c90_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Return, O LORD, how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants. <a id="c90_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. <a id="c90_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Make us glad according to the days <em>wherein</em> thou hast afflicted us, <em>and</em> the years <em>wherein</em> we have seen evil. <a id="c90_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children. <a id="c90_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us: and establish thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands establish thou it.

</body>
</html>