<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 62</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 62</h2>

<a id="c62_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician, to Jeduthun, A Psalm of David.</b> Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him <em>cometh</em> my salvation. <a id="c62_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He only <em>is</em> my rock and my salvation; <em>he is</em> my defence; I shall not be greatly moved. <a id="c62_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wall <em>shall ye be, and as</em> a tottering fence. <a id="c62_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They only consult to cast <em>him</em> down from his excellency: they delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah. <a id="c62_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation <em>is</em> from him. <a id="c62_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He only <em>is</em> my rock and my salvation: <em>he is</em> my defence; I shall not be moved. <a id="c62_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In God <em>is</em> my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, <em>and</em> my refuge, <em>is</em> in God. <a id="c62_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Trust in him at all times; <em>ye</em> people, pour out your heart before him: God <em>is</em> a refuge for us. Selah. <a id="c62_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely men of low degree <em>are</em> vanity, <em>and</em> men of high degree <em>are</em> a lie: to be laid in the balance, they <em>are</em> altogether <em>lighter</em> than vanity. <a id="c62_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart <em>upon them</em>. <a id="c62_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power <em>belongeth</em> unto God. <a id="c62_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Also unto thee, O Lord, <em>belongeth</em> mercy: for thou renderest to every man according to his work.

</body>
</html>