<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 55</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 55</h2>

<a id="c55_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <b>To the chief Musician on Neginoth, Maschil, <em>A Psalm</em> of David.</b> Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my supplication. <a id="c55_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise; <a id="c55_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me. <a id="c55_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen upon me. <a id="c55_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed me. <a id="c55_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! <em>for then</em> would I fly away, and be at rest. <a id="c55_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, <em>then</em> would I wander far off, <em>and</em> remain in the wilderness. Selah. <a id="c55_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I would hasten my escape from the windy storm <em>and</em> tempest. <a id="c55_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Destroy, O Lord, <em>and</em> divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city. <a id="c55_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief also and sorrow <em>are</em> in the midst of it. <a id="c55_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wickedness <em>is</em> in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets. <a id="c55_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For <em>it was</em> not an enemy <em>that</em> reproached me; then I could have borne <em>it</em>: neither <em>was it</em> he that hated me <em>that</em> did magnify <em>himself</em> against me; then I would have hid myself from him: <a id="c55_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But <em>it was</em> thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance. <a id="c55_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> We took sweet counsel together, <em>and</em> walked unto the house of God in company. <a id="c55_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let death seize upon them, <em>and</em> let them go down quick into hell: for wickedness <em>is</em> in their dwellings, <em>and</em> among them. <a id="c55_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> As for me, I will call upon God; and the LORD shall save me. <a id="c55_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud: and he shall hear my voice. <a id="c55_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle <em>that was</em> against me: for there were many with me. <a id="c55_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God. <a id="c55_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with him: he hath broken his covenant. <a id="c55_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> <em>The words</em> of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war <em>was</em> in his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet <em>were</em> they drawn swords. <a id="c55_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. <a id="c55_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in thee.

</body>
</html>