<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments: <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart: <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the LORD, and depart from evil. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Honour the LORD with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD; neither be weary of his correction: <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For whom the LORD loveth he correcteth; even as a father the son <em>in whom</em> he delighteth. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Happy <em>is</em> the man <em>that</em> findeth wisdom, and the man <em>that</em> getteth understanding. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the merchandise of it <em>is</em> better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> She <em>is</em> more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Length of days <em>is</em> in her right hand; <em>and</em> in her left hand riches and honour. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Her ways <em>are</em> ways of pleasantness, and all her paths <em>are</em> peace. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> She <em>is</em> a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy <em>is every one</em> that retaineth her. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son, let not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom and discretion: <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For the LORD shall be thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot from being taken. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do <em>it</em>. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to morrow I will give; when thou hast it by thee. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the froward <em>is</em> abomination to the LORD: but his secret <em>is</em> with the righteous. <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The curse of the LORD <em>is</em> in the house of the wicked: but he blesseth the habitation of the just. <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the lowly. <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotion of fools.

</body>
</html>