<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A wise <em>man</em> will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels: <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The fear of the LORD <em>is</em> the beginning of knowledge: <em>but</em> fools despise wisdom and instruction. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother: <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For they <em>shall be</em> an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause: <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let us swallow them up alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pit: <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Cast in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse: <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My son, walk not thou in the way with them; refrain thy foot from their path: <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they lay wait for their <em>own</em> blood; they lurk privily for their <em>own</em> lives. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So <em>are</em> the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; <em>which</em> taketh away the life of the owners thereof. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wisdom crieth without; she uttereth her voice in the streets: <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She crieth in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of the gates: in the city she uttereth her words, <em>saying</em>, <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge? <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Turn you at my reproof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known my words unto you. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof: <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh; <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh upon you. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me: <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the LORD: <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They would none of my counsel: they despised all my reproof. <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices. <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil.

</body>
</html>