<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice? <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> She standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of the paths. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> She crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in at the doors. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice <em>is</em> to the sons of man. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O ye simple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my lips <em>shall be</em> right things. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness <em>is</em> an abomination to my lips. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All the words of my mouth <em>are</em> in righteousness; <em>there is</em> nothing froward or perverse in them. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They <em>are</em> all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For wisdom <em>is</em> better than rubies; and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty inventions. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fear of the LORD <em>is</em> to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Counsel <em>is</em> mine, and sound wisdom: I <em>am</em> understanding; I have strength. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By me kings reign, and princes decree justice. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> By me princes rule, and nobles, <em>even</em> all the judges of the earth. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Riches and honour <em>are</em> with me; <em>yea</em>, durable riches and righteousness. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My fruit <em>is</em> better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue than choice silver. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment: <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasures. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The LORD possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When <em>there were</em> no depths, I was brought forth; when <em>there were</em> no fountains abounding with water. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth: <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> When he prepared the heavens, I <em>was</em> there: when he set a compass upon the face of the depth: <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> When he established the clouds above: when he strengthened the fountains of the deep: <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When he gave to the sea his decree, that the waters should not pass his commandment: when he appointed the foundations of the earth: <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then I was by him, <em>as</em> one brought up <em>with him</em>: and I was daily <em>his</em> delight, rejoicing always before him; <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth; and my delights <em>were</em> with the sons of men. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed <em>are they that</em> keep my ways. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Blessed <em>is</em> the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the LORD. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they that hate me love death.

</body>
</html>