<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee; <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, <em>and</em> apply thine heart to understanding; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, <em>and</em> liftest up thy voice for understanding; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as <em>for</em> hid treasures; <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then shalt thou understand the fear of the LORD, and find the knowledge of God. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the LORD giveth wisdom: out of his mouth <em>cometh</em> knowledge and understanding. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous: <em>he is</em> a buckler to them that walk uprightly. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He keepeth the paths of judgment, and preserveth the way of his saints. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and judgment, and equity; <em>yea</em>, every good path. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul; <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Discretion shall preserve thee, understanding shall keep thee: <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To deliver thee from the way of the evil <em>man</em>, from the man that speaketh froward things; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness; <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who rejoice to do evil, <em>and</em> delight in the frowardness of the wicked; <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whose ways <em>are</em> crooked, and <em>they</em> froward in their paths: <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To deliver thee from the strange woman, <em>even</em> from the stranger <em>which</em> flattereth with her words; <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> That thou mayest walk in the way of good <em>men</em>, and keep the paths of the righteous. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the transgressors shall be rooted out of it.

</body>
</html>