<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars: <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> She hath killed her beasts; she hath mingled her wine; she hath also furnished her table. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> She hath sent forth her maidens: she crieth upon the highest places of the city, <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whoso <em>is</em> simple, let him turn in hither: <em>as for</em> him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine <em>which</em> I have mingled. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame: and he that rebuketh a wicked <em>man getteth</em> himself a blot. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Give <em>instruction</em> to a wise <em>man</em>, and he will be yet wiser: teach a just <em>man</em>, and he will increase in learning. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The fear of the LORD <em>is</em> the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy <em>is</em> understanding. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and the years of thy life shall be increased. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself: but <em>if</em> thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear <em>it</em>. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A foolish woman <em>is</em> clamorous: <em>she is</em> simple, and knoweth nothing. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For she sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city, <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To call passengers who go right on their ways: <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoso <em>is</em> simple, let him turn in hither: and <em>as for</em> him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Stolen waters are sweet, and bread <em>eaten</em> in secret is pleasant. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But he knoweth not that the dead <em>are</em> there; <em>and that</em> her guests <em>are</em> in the depths of hell.

</body>
</html>