<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I was my father's son, tender and only <em>beloved</em> in the sight of my mother. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my words: keep my commandments, and live. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Get wisdom, get understanding: forget <em>it</em> not; neither decline from the words of my mouth. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she shall keep thee. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wisdom <em>is</em> the principal thing; <em>therefore</em> get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Exalt her, and she shall promote thee: she shall bring thee to honour, when thou dost embrace her. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of glory shall she deliver to thee. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life shall be many. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in right paths. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take fast hold of instruction; let <em>her</em> not go: keep her; for she <em>is</em> thy life. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil <em>men</em>. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For they sleep not, except they have done mischief; and their sleep is taken away, unless they cause <em>some</em> to fall. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the path of the just <em>is</em> as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the wicked <em>is</em> as darkness: they know not at what they stumble. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thine heart. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For they <em>are</em> life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it <em>are</em> the issues of life. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far from thee. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from evil.

</body>
</html>