<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Keep my commandments, and live; and my law as the apple of thine eye. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine heart. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Say unto wisdom, Thou <em>art</em> my sister; and call understanding <em>thy</em> kinswoman: <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That they may keep thee from the strange woman, from the stranger <em>which</em> flattereth with her words. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For at the window of my house I looked through my casement, <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a young man void of understanding, <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Passing through the street near her corner; and he went the way to her house, <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night: <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And, behold, there met him a woman <em>with</em> the attire of an harlot, and subtil of heart. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> (She <em>is</em> loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house: <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now <em>is she</em> without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every corner.) <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So she caught him, and kissed him, <em>and</em> with an impudent face said unto him, <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> <em>I have</em> peace offerings with me; this day have I payed my vows. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore came I forth to meet thee, diligently to seek thy face, and I have found thee. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved <em>works</em>, with fine linen of Egypt. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning: let us solace ourselves with loves. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the goodman <em>is</em> not at home, he is gone a long journey: <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He hath taken a bag of money with him, <em>and</em> will come home at the day appointed. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> With her much fair speech she caused him to yield, with the flattering of her lips she forced him. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He goeth after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the stocks; <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Till a dart strike through his liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not that it <em>is</em> for his life. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Hearken unto me now therefore, O ye children, and attend to the words of my mouth. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let not thine heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her paths. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong <em>men</em> have been slain by her. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Her house <em>is</em> the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death.

</body>
</html>