<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, <em>if</em> thou hast stricken thy hand with a stranger, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, when thou art come into the hand of thy friend; go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand <em>of the hunter</em>, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise: <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Provideth her meat in the summer, <em>and</em> gathereth her food in the harvest. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>Yet</em> a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep: <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a froward mouth. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth with his fingers; <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Frowardness <em>is</em> in his heart, he deviseth mischief continually; he soweth discord. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These six <em>things</em> doth the LORD hate: yea, seven <em>are</em> an abomination unto him: <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A false witness <em>that</em> speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother: <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bind them continually upon thine heart, <em>and</em> tie them about thy neck. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and <em>when</em> thou awakest, it shall talk with thee. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the commandment <em>is</em> a lamp; and the law <em>is</em> light; and reproofs of instruction <em>are</em> the way of life: <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> To keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Lust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take thee with her eyelids. <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For by means of a whorish woman <em>a man is brought</em> to a piece of bread: and the adulteress will hunt for the precious life. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned? <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned? <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So he that goeth in to his neighbour's wife; whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> <em>Men</em> do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry; <a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But <em>if</em> he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the substance of his house. <a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> <em>But</em> whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding: he <em>that</em> doeth it destroyeth his own soul. <a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his reproach shall not be wiped away. <a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For jealousy <em>is</em> the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance. <a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts.

</body>
</html>