<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, attend unto my wisdom, <em>and</em> bow thine ear to my understanding: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> That thou mayest regard discretion, and <em>that</em> thy lips may keep knowledge. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the lips of a strange woman drop <em>as</em> an honeycomb, and her mouth <em>is</em> smoother than oil: <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a twoedged sword. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are moveable, <em>that</em> thou canst not know <em>them</em>. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear me now therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the words of my mouth. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house: <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto the cruel: <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy labours <em>be</em> in the house of a stranger; <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thou mourn at the last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed, <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And say, How have I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof; <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me! <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, <em>and</em> rivers of waters in the streets. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let them be only thine own, and not strangers' with thee. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy youth. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> <em>Let her be as</em> the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger? <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the ways of man <em>are</em> before the eyes of the LORD, and he pondereth all his goings. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray.

</body>
</html>