<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Moab. Because in the night Ar of Moab is laid waste, <em>and</em> brought to silence; because in the night Kir of Moab is laid waste, <em>and</em> brought to silence; <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He is gone up to Bajith, and to Dibon, the high places, to weep: Moab shall howl over Nebo, and over Medeba: on all their heads <em>shall be</em> baldness, <em>and</em> every beard cut off. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In their streets they shall gird themselves with sackcloth: on the tops of their houses, and in their streets, every one shall howl, weeping abundantly. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Heshbon shall cry, and Elealeh: their voice shall be heard <em>even</em> unto Jahaz: therefore the armed soldiers of Moab shall cry out; his life shall be grievous unto him. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My heart shall cry out for Moab; his fugitives <em>shall flee</em> unto Zoar, an heifer of three years old: for by the mounting up of Luhith with weeping shall they go it up; for in the way of Horonaim they shall raise up a cry of destruction. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate: for the hay is withered away, the grass faileth, there is no green thing. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore the abundance they have gotten, and that which they have laid up, shall they carry away to the brook of the willows. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the cry is gone round about the borders of Moab; the howling thereof unto Eglaim, and the howling thereof unto Beerelim. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the waters of Dimon shall be full of blood: for I will bring more upon Dimon, lions upon him that escapeth of Moab, and upon the remnant of the land.

</body>
</html>