<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice unto them, shake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the nobles. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my mighty ones for mine anger, <em>even</em> them that rejoice in my highness. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The noise of a multitude in the mountains, like as of a great people; a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered together: the LORD of hosts mustereth the host of the battle. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, <em>even</em> the LORD, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Howl ye; for the day of the LORD <em>is</em> at hand; it shall come as a destruction from the Almighty. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore shall all hands be faint, and every man's heart shall melt: <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they shall be afraid: pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them; they shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth: they shall be amazed one at another; their faces <em>shall be as</em> flames. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the day of the LORD cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate: and he shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will punish the world for <em>their</em> evil, and the wicked for their iniquity; and I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease, and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove out of her place, in the wrath of the LORD of hosts, and in the day of his fierce anger. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man taketh up: they shall every man turn to his own people, and flee every one into his own land. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Every one that is found shall be thrust through; and every one that is joined <em>unto them</em> shall fall by the sword. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Their children also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes; their houses shall be spoiled, and their wives ravished. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall not regard silver; and <em>as for</em> gold, they shall not delight in it. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> <em>Their</em> bows also shall dash the young men to pieces; and they shall have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eye shall not spare children. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees' excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there; neither shall the shepherds make their fold there. <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their houses shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and satyrs shall dance there. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses, and dragons in <em>their</em> pleasant palaces: and her time <em>is</em> near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged.

</body>
</html>