<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 44</h2>

<a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant; and Israel, whom I have chosen: <a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus saith the LORD that made thee, and formed thee from the womb, <em>which</em> will help thee; Fear not, O Jacob, my servant; and thou, Jesurun, whom I have chosen. <a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground: I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring: <a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they shall spring up <em>as</em> among the grass, as willows by the water courses. <a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> One shall say, I <em>am</em> the LORD'S; and another shall call <em>himself</em> by the name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe <em>with</em> his hand unto the LORD, and surname <em>himself</em> by the name of Israel. <a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus saith the LORD the King of Israel, and his redeemer the LORD of hosts; I <em>am</em> the first, and I <em>am</em> the last; and beside me <em>there is</em> no God. <a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I appointed the ancient people? and the things that are coming, and shall come, let them shew unto them. <a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have not I told thee from that time, and have declared <em>it</em>? ye <em>are</em> even my witnesses. Is there a God beside me? yea, <em>there is</em> no God; I know not <em>any</em>. <a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They that make a graven image <em>are</em> all of them vanity; and their delectable things shall not profit; and they <em>are</em> their own witnesses; they see not, nor know; that they may be ashamed. <a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who hath formed a god, or molten a graven image <em>that</em> is profitable for nothing? <a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all his fellows shall be ashamed: and the workmen, they <em>are</em> of men: let them all be gathered together, let them stand up; <em>yet</em> they shall fear, <em>and</em> they shall be ashamed together. <a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The smith with the tongs both worketh in the coals, and fashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with the strength of his arms: yea, he is hungry, and his strength faileth: he drinketh no water, and is faint. <a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The carpenter stretcheth out <em>his</em> rule; he marketh it out with a line; he fitteth it with planes, and he marketh it out with the compass, and maketh it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man; that it may remain in the house. <a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He heweth him down cedars, and taketh the cypress and the oak, which he strengtheneth for himself among the trees of the forest: he planteth an ash, and the rain doth nourish <em>it</em>. <a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then shall it be for a man to burn: for he will take thereof, and warm himself; yea, he kindleth <em>it</em>, and baketh bread; yea, he maketh a god, and worshippeth <em>it</em>; he maketh it a graven image, and falleth down thereto. <a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He burneth part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eateth flesh; he roasteth roast, and is satisfied: yea, he warmeth <em>himself</em>, and saith, Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire: <a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the residue thereof he maketh a god, <em>even</em> his graven image: he falleth down unto it, and worshippeth <em>it</em>, and prayeth unto it, and saith, Deliver me; for thou <em>art</em> my god. <a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They have not known nor understood: for he hath shut their eyes, that they cannot see; <em>and</em> their hearts, that they cannot understand. <a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And none considereth in his heart, neither <em>is there</em> knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire; yea, also I have baked bread upon the coals thereof; I have roasted flesh, and eaten <em>it</em>: and shall I make the residue thereof an abomination? shall I fall down to the stock of a tree? <a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He feedeth on ashes: a deceived heart hath turned him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, <em>Is there</em> not a lie in my right hand? <a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Remember these, O Jacob and Israel; for thou <em>art</em> my servant: I have formed thee; thou <em>art</em> my servant: O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten of me. <a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee. <a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Sing, O ye heavens; for the LORD hath done <em>it</em>: shout, ye lower parts of the earth: break forth into singing, ye mountains, O forest, and every tree therein: for the LORD hath redeemed Jacob, and glorified himself in Israel. <a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thus saith the LORD, thy redeemer, and he that formed thee from the womb, I <em>am</em> the LORD that maketh all <em>things</em>; that stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself; <a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> That frustrateth the tokens of the liars, and maketh diviners mad; that turneth wise <em>men</em> backward, and maketh their knowledge foolish; <a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> That confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the counsel of his messengers; that saith to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be inhabited; and to the cities of Judah, Ye shall be built, and I will raise up the decayed places thereof: <a id="c44_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> That saith to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up thy rivers: <a id="c44_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> That saith of Cyrus, <em>He is</em> my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure: even saying to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be built; and to the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid.

</body>
</html>