<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 61</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 61</h2>

<a id="c61_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Spirit of the Lord GOD <em>is</em> upon me; because the LORD hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to <em>them that are</em> bound; <a id="c61_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To proclaim the acceptable year of the LORD, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn; <a id="c61_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the LORD, that he might be glorified. <a id="c61_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations. <a id="c61_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and the sons of the alien <em>shall be</em> your plowmen and your vinedressers. <a id="c61_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But ye shall be named the Priests of the LORD: <em>men</em> shall call you the Ministers of our God: ye shall eat the riches of the Gentiles, and in their glory shall ye boast yourselves. <a id="c61_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For your shame <em>ye shall have</em> double; and <em>for</em> confusion they shall rejoice in their portion: therefore in their land they shall possess the double: everlasting joy shall be unto them. <a id="c61_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I the LORD love judgment, I hate robbery for burnt offering; and I will direct their work in truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them. <a id="c61_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And their seed shall be known among the Gentiles, and their offspring among the people: all that see them shall acknowledge them, that they <em>are</em> the seed <em>which</em> the LORD hath blessed. <a id="c61_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will greatly rejoice in the LORD, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh <em>himself</em> with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth <em>herself</em> with her jewels. <a id="c61_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord GOD will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.

</body>
</html>