<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 52</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 52</h2>

<a id="c52_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Awake, awake; put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for henceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean. <a id="c52_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Shake thyself from the dust; arise, <em>and</em> sit down, O Jerusalem: loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion. <a id="c52_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thus saith the LORD, Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall be redeemed without money. <a id="c52_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus saith the Lord GOD, My people went down aforetime into Egypt to sojourn there; and the Assyrian oppressed them without cause. <a id="c52_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now therefore, what have I here, saith the LORD, that my people is taken away for nought? they that rule over them make them to howl, saith the LORD; and my name continually every day <em>is</em> blasphemed. <a id="c52_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore my people shall know my name: therefore <em>they shall know</em> in that day that I <em>am</em> he that doth speak: behold, <em>it is</em> I. <a id="c52_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth! <a id="c52_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the LORD shall bring again Zion. <a id="c52_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem: for the LORD hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem. <a id="c52_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The LORD hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God. <a id="c52_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Depart ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence, touch no unclean <em>thing</em>; go ye out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that bear the vessels of the LORD. <a id="c52_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For ye shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight: for the LORD will go before you; and the God of Israel <em>will be</em> your rereward. <a id="c52_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, my servant shall deal prudently, he shall be exalted and extolled, and be very high. <a id="c52_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As many were astonied at thee; his visage was so marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men: <a id="c52_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So shall he sprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their mouths at him: for <em>that</em> which had not been told them shall they see; and <em>that</em> which they had not heard shall they consider.

</body>
</html>