<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For, behold, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and the staff, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The mighty man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet, and the prudent, and the ancient, <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The captain of fifty, and the honourable man, and the counsellor, and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will give children <em>to be</em> their princes, and babes shall rule over them. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbour: the child shall behave himself proudly against the ancient, and the base against the honourable. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of his father, <em>saying</em>, Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and <em>let</em> this ruin <em>be</em> under thy hand: <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In that day shall he swear, saying, I will not be an healer; for in my house <em>is</em> neither bread nor clothing: make me not a ruler of the people. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen: because their tongue and their doings <em>are</em> against the LORD, to provoke the eyes of his glory. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The shew of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom, they hide <em>it</em> not. Woe unto their soul! for they have rewarded evil unto themselves. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say ye to the righteous, that <em>it shall be</em> well <em>with him</em>: for they shall eat the fruit of their doings. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Woe unto the wicked! <em>it shall be</em> ill <em>with him</em>: for the reward of his hands shall be given him. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> <em>As for</em> my people, children <em>are</em> their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, they which lead thee cause <em>thee</em> to err, and destroy the way of thy paths. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The LORD standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the people. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The LORD will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people, and the princes thereof: for ye have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor <em>is</em> in your houses. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What mean ye <em>that</em> ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the faces of the poor? saith the Lord GOD of hosts. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover the LORD saith, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing <em>as</em> they go, and making a tinkling with their feet: <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore the Lord will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the LORD will discover their secret parts. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of <em>their</em> tinkling ornaments <em>about their feet</em>, and <em>their</em> cauls, and <em>their</em> round tires like the moon, <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The chains, and the bracelets, and the mufflers, <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands, and the tablets, and the earrings, <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The rings, and nose jewels, <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples, and the crisping pins, <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The glasses, and the fine linen, and the hoods, and the vails. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it shall come to pass, <em>that</em> instead of sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding of sackcloth; <em>and</em> burning instead of beauty. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she <em>being</em> desolate shall sit upon the ground.

</body>
</html>