<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 47</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 47</h2>

<a id="c47_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Come down, and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon, sit on the ground: <em>there is</em> no throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called tender and delicate. <a id="c47_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take the millstones, and grind meal: uncover thy locks, make bare the leg, uncover the thigh, pass over the rivers. <a id="c47_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thy nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, thy shame shall be seen: I will take vengeance, and I will not meet <em>thee as</em> a man. <a id="c47_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> <em>As for</em> our redeemer, the LORD of hosts <em>is</em> his name, the Holy One of Israel. <a id="c47_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called, The lady of kingdoms. <a id="c47_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I was wroth with my people, I have polluted mine inheritance, and given them into thine hand: thou didst shew them no mercy; upon the ancient hast thou very heavily laid thy yoke. <a id="c47_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou saidst, I shall be a lady for ever: <em>so</em> that thou didst not lay these <em>things</em> to thy heart, neither didst remember the latter end of it. <a id="c47_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore hear now this, <em>thou that art</em> given to pleasures, that dwellest carelessly, that sayest in thine heart, I <em>am</em>, and none else beside me; I shall not sit <em>as</em> a widow, neither shall I know the loss of children: <a id="c47_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But these two <em>things</em> shall come to thee in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood: they shall come upon thee in their perfection for the multitude of thy sorceries, <em>and</em> for the great abundance of thine enchantments. <a id="c47_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou hast trusted in thy wickedness: thou hast said, None seeth me. Thy wisdom and thy knowledge, it hath perverted thee; and thou hast said in thine heart, I <em>am</em>, and none else beside me. <a id="c47_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore shall evil come upon thee; thou shalt not know from whence it riseth: and mischief shall fall upon thee; thou shalt not be able to put it off: and desolation shall come upon thee suddenly, <em>which</em> thou shalt not know. <a id="c47_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Stand now with thine enchantments, and with the multitude of thy sorceries, wherein thou hast laboured from thy youth; if so be thou shalt be able to profit, if so be thou mayest prevail. <a id="c47_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels. Let now the astrologers, the stargazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up, and save thee from <em>these things</em> that shall come upon thee. <a id="c47_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: <em>there shall</em> not <em>be</em> a coal to warm at, <em>nor</em> fire to sit before it. <a id="c47_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus shall they be unto thee with whom thou hast laboured, <em>even</em> thy merchants, from thy youth: they shall wander every one to his quarter; none shall save thee.

</body>
</html>