<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 36</h2>

<a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, <em>that</em> Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the defenced cities of Judah, and took them. <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the king of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem unto king Hezekiah with a great army. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the fuller's field. <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then came forth unto him Eliakim, Hilkiah's son, which was over the house, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, Asaph's son, the recorder. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Rabshakeh said unto them, Say ye now to Hezekiah, Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence <em>is</em> this wherein thou trustest? <a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I say, <em>sayest thou</em>, (but <em>they are but</em> vain words) <em>I have</em> counsel and strength for war: now on whom dost thou trust, that thou rebellest against me? <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lo, thou trustest in the staff of this broken reed, on Egypt; whereon if a man lean, it will go into his hand, and pierce it: so <em>is</em> Pharaoh king of Egypt to all that trust in him. <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if thou say to me, We trust in the LORD our God: <em>is it</em> not he, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and said to Judah and to Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar? <a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now therefore give pledges, I pray thee, to my master the king of Assyria, and I will give thee two thousand horses, if thou be able on thy part to set riders upon them. <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the least of my master's servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen? <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And am I now come up without the LORD against this land to destroy it? the LORD said unto me, Go up against this land, and destroy it. <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then said Eliakim and Shebna and Joah unto Rabshakeh, Speak, I pray thee, unto thy servants in the Syrian language; for we understand <em>it</em>: and speak not to us in the Jews' language, in the ears of the people that <em>are</em> on the wall. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But Rabshakeh said, Hath my master sent me to thy master and to thee to speak these words? <em>hath he</em> not <em>sent me</em> to the men that sit upon the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drink their own piss with you? <a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then Rabshakeh stood, and cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language, and said, Hear ye the words of the great king, the king of Assyria. <a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thus saith the king, Let not Hezekiah deceive you: for he shall not be able to deliver you. <a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD, saying, The LORD will surely deliver us: this city shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria. <a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria, Make <em>an agreement</em> with me <em>by</em> a present, and come out to me: and eat ye every one of his vine, and every one of his fig tree, and drink ye every one the waters of his own cistern; <a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, a land of bread and vineyards. <a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> <em>Beware</em> lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, The LORD will deliver us. Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria? <a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Where <em>are</em> the gods of Hamath and Arphad? where <em>are</em> the gods of Sepharvaim? and have they delivered Samaria out of my hand? <a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Who <em>are they</em> among all the gods of these lands, that have delivered their land out of my hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand? <a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But they held their peace, and answered him not a word: for the king's commandment was, saying, Answer him not. <a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then came Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, that <em>was</em> over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder, to Hezekiah with <em>their</em> clothes rent, and told him the words of Rabshakeh.

</body>
</html>