<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover the LORD said unto me, Take thee a great roll, and write in it with a man's pen concerning Mahershalalhashbaz. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I took unto me faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived, and bare a son. Then said the LORD to me, Call his name Mahershalalhashbaz. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For before the child shall have knowledge to cry, My father, and my mother, the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria shall be taken away before the king of Assyria. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The LORD spake also unto me again, saying, <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Forasmuch as this people refuseth the waters of Shiloah that go softly, and rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah's son; <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth up upon them the waters of the river, strong and many, <em>even</em> the king of Assyria, and all his glory: and he shall come up over all his channels, and go over all his banks: <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he shall pass through Judah; he shall overflow and go over, he shall reach <em>even</em> to the neck; and the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in pieces; and give ear, all ye of far countries: gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Take counsel together, and it shall come to nought; speak the word, and it shall not stand: for God <em>is</em> with us. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the LORD spake thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed me that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying, <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Say ye not, A confederacy, to all <em>them to</em> whom this people shall say, A confederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Sanctify the LORD of hosts himself; and <em>let</em> him <em>be</em> your fear, and <em>let</em> him <em>be</em> your dread. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will wait upon the LORD, that hideth his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, I and the children whom the LORD hath given me <em>are</em> for signs and for wonders in Israel from the LORD of hosts, which dwelleth in mount Zion. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter: should not a people seek unto their God? for the living to the dead? <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> To the law and to the testimony: if they speak not according to this word, <em>it is</em> because <em>there is</em> no light in them. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they shall pass through it, hardly bestead and hungry: and it shall come to pass, that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret themselves, and curse their king and their God, and look upward. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they shall look unto the earth; and behold trouble and darkness, dimness of anguish; and <em>they shall be</em> driven to darkness.

</body>
</html>