<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, <em>and</em> Hezekiah, kings of Judah. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth: for the LORD hath spoken, I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib: <em>but</em> Israel doth not know, my people doth not consider. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters: they have forsaken the LORD, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone away backward. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why should ye be stricken any more? ye will revolt more and more: the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> From the sole of the foot even unto the head <em>there is</em> no soundness in it; <em>but</em> wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores: they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your country <em>is</em> desolate, your cities <em>are</em> burned with fire: your land, strangers devour it in your presence, and <em>it is</em> desolate, as overthrown by strangers. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage in a vineyard, as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Except the LORD of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom, <em>and</em> we should have been like unto Gomorrah. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear the word of the LORD, ye rulers of Sodom; give ear unto the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> To what purpose <em>is</em> the multitude of your sacrifices unto me? saith the LORD: I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he goats. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand, to tread my courts? <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination unto me; the new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with; <em>it is</em> iniquity, even the solemn meeting. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth: they are a trouble unto me; I am weary to bear <em>them</em>. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you: yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear: your hands are full of blood. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil; <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Come now, and let us reason together, saith the LORD: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land: <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken <em>it</em>. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> How is the faithful city become an harlot! it was full of judgment; righteousness lodged in it; but now murderers. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thy silver is become dross, thy wine mixed with water: <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thy princes <em>are</em> rebellious, and companions of thieves: every one loveth gifts, and followeth after rewards: they judge not the fatherless, neither doth the cause of the widow come unto them. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore saith the Lord, the LORD of hosts, the mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge me of mine enemies: <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I will turn my hand upon thee, and purely purge away thy dross, and take away all thy tin: <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I will restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning: afterward thou shalt be called, The city of righteousness, the faithful city. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts with righteousness. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners <em>shall be</em> together, and they that forsake the LORD shall be consumed. <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which ye have desired, and ye shall be confounded for the gardens that ye have chosen. <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For ye shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, and as a garden that hath no water. <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the strong shall be as tow, and the maker of it as a spark, and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench <em>them</em>.

</body>
</html>