<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 19</h2>

<a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Egypt. Behold, the LORD rideth upon a swift cloud, and shall come into Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and they shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his neighbour; city against city, <em>and</em> kingdom against kingdom. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof; and I will destroy the counsel thereof: and they shall seek to the idols, and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and to the wizards. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel lord; and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord, the LORD of hosts. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be wasted and dried up. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they shall turn the rivers far away; <em>and</em> the brooks of defence shall be emptied and dried up: the reeds and flags shall wither. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The paper reeds by the brooks, by the mouth of the brooks, and every thing sown by the brooks, shall wither, be driven away, and be no <em>more</em>. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The fishers also shall mourn, and all they that cast angle into the brooks shall lament, and they that spread nets upon the waters shall languish. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Moreover they that work in fine flax, and they that weave networks, shall be confounded. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they shall be broken in the purposes thereof, all that make sluices <em>and</em> ponds for fish. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Surely the princes of Zoan <em>are</em> fools, the counsel of the wise counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, I <em>am</em> the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings? <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Where <em>are</em> they? where <em>are</em> thy wise <em>men</em>? and let them tell thee now, and let them know what the LORD of hosts hath purposed upon Egypt. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Noph are deceived; they have also seduced Egypt, <em>even they that are</em> the stay of the tribes thereof. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The LORD hath mingled a perverse spirit in the midst thereof: and they have caused Egypt to err in every work thereof, as a drunken <em>man</em> staggereth in his vomit. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Neither shall there be <em>any</em> work for Egypt, which the head or tail, branch or rush, may do. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In that day shall Egypt be like unto women: and it shall be afraid and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the LORD of hosts, which he shaketh over it. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the land of Judah shall be a terror unto Egypt, every one that maketh mention thereof shall be afraid in himself, because of the counsel of the LORD of hosts, which he hath determined against it. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speak the language of Canaan, and swear to the LORD of hosts; one shall be called, The city of destruction. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In that day shall there be an altar to the LORD in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the LORD. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the LORD of hosts in the land of Egypt: for they shall cry unto the LORD because of the oppressors, and he shall send them a saviour, and a great one, and he shall deliver them. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the LORD shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the LORD in that day, and shall do sacrifice and oblation; yea, they shall vow a vow unto the LORD, and perform <em>it</em>. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the LORD shall smite Egypt: he shall smite and heal <em>it</em>: and they shall return <em>even</em> to the LORD, and he shall be intreated of them, and shall heal them. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria, and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, <em>even</em> a blessing in the midst of the land: <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whom the LORD of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed <em>be</em> Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.

</body>
</html>