<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 62</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 62</h2>

<a id="c62_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For Zion's sake will I not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not rest, until the righteousness thereof go forth as brightness, and the salvation thereof as a lamp <em>that</em> burneth. <a id="c62_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thy glory: and thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the LORD shall name. <a id="c62_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the hand of the LORD, and a royal diadem in the hand of thy God. <a id="c62_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken; neither shall thy land any more be termed Desolate: but thou shalt be called Hephzibah, and thy land Beulah: for the LORD delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married. <a id="c62_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For <em>as</em> a young man marrieth a virgin, <em>so</em> shall thy sons marry thee: and <em>as</em> the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, <em>so</em> shall thy God rejoice over thee. <a id="c62_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem, <em>which</em> shall never hold their peace day nor night: ye that make mention of the LORD, keep not silence, <a id="c62_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And give him no rest, till he establish, and till he make Jerusalem a praise in the earth. <a id="c62_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The LORD hath sworn by his right hand, and by the arm of his strength, Surely I will no more give thy corn <em>to be</em> meat for thine enemies; and the sons of the stranger shall not drink thy wine, for the which thou hast laboured: <a id="c62_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But they that have gathered it shall eat it, and praise the LORD; and they that have brought it together shall drink it in the courts of my holiness. <a id="c62_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Go through, go through the gates; prepare ye the way of the people; cast up, cast up the highway; gather out the stones; lift up a standard for the people. <a id="c62_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, the LORD hath proclaimed unto the end of the world, Say ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh; behold, his reward <em>is</em> with him, and his work before him. <a id="c62_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they shall call them, The holy people, The redeemed of the LORD: and thou shalt be called, Sought out, A city not forsaken.

</body>
</html>