<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 16</h2>

<a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Send ye the lamb to the ruler of the land from Sela to the wilderness, unto the mount of the daughter of Zion. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For it shall be, <em>that</em>, as a wandering bird cast out of the nest, <em>so</em> the daughters of Moab shall be at the fords of Arnon. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Take counsel, execute judgment; make thy shadow as the night in the midst of the noonday; hide the outcasts; bewray not him that wandereth. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let mine outcasts dwell with thee, Moab; be thou a covert to them from the face of the spoiler: for the extortioner is at an end, the spoiler ceaseth, the oppressors are consumed out of the land. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And in mercy shall the throne be established: and he shall sit upon it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging, and seeking judgment, and hasting righteousness. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have heard of the pride of Moab; <em>he is</em> very proud: <em>even</em> of his haughtiness, and his pride, and his wrath: <em>but</em> his lies <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em> so. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore shall Moab howl for Moab, every one shall howl: for the foundations of Kirhareseth shall ye mourn; surely <em>they are</em> stricken. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the fields of Heshbon languish, <em>and</em> the vine of Sibmah: the lords of the heathen have broken down the principal plants thereof, they are come <em>even</em> unto Jazer, they wandered <em>through</em> the wilderness: her branches are stretched out, they are gone over the sea. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore I will bewail with the weeping of Jazer the vine of Sibmah: I will water thee with my tears, O Heshbon, and Elealeh: for the shouting for thy summer fruits and for thy harvest is fallen. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And gladness is taken away, and joy out of the plentiful field; and in the vineyards there shall be no singing, neither shall there be shouting: the treaders shall tread out no wine in <em>their</em> presses; I have made <em>their vintage</em> shouting to cease. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wherefore my bowels shall sound like an harp for Moab, and mine inward parts for Kirharesh. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it shall come to pass, when it is seen that Moab is weary on the high place, that he shall come to his sanctuary to pray; but he shall not prevail. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This <em>is</em> the word that the LORD hath spoken concerning Moab since that time. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But now the LORD hath spoken, saying, Within three years, as the years of an hireling, and the glory of Moab shall be contemned, with all that great multitude; and the remnant <em>shall be</em> very small <em>and</em> feeble.

</body>
</html>