<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 25</h2>

<a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O LORD, thou <em>art</em> my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful <em>things; thy</em> counsels of old <em>are</em> faithfulness <em>and</em> truth. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For thou hast made of a city an heap; <em>of</em> a defenced city a ruin: a palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be built. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore shall the strong people glorify thee, the city of the terrible nations shall fear thee. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast been a strength to the poor, a strength to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the heat, when the blast of the terrible ones <em>is</em> as a storm <em>against</em> the wall. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou shalt bring down the noise of strangers, as the heat in a dry place; <em>even</em> the heat with the shadow of a cloud: the branch of the terrible ones shall be brought low. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And in this mountain shall the LORD of hosts make unto all people a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering cast over all people, and the vail that is spread over all nations. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord GOD will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the earth: for the LORD hath spoken <em>it</em>. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this <em>is</em> our God; we have waited for him, and he will save us: this <em>is</em> the LORD; we have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For in this mountain shall the hand of the LORD rest, and Moab shall be trodden down under him, even as straw is trodden down for the dunghill. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he shall spread forth his hands in the midst of them, as he that swimmeth spreadeth forth <em>his hands</em> to swim: and he shall bring down their pride together with the spoils of their hands. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the fortress of the high fort of thy walls shall he bring down, lay low, <em>and</em> bring to the ground, <em>even</em> to the dust.

</body>
</html>