<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 57</h2>

<a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth <em>it</em> to heart: and merciful men <em>are</em> taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil <em>to come</em>. <a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He shall enter into peace: they shall rest in their beds, <em>each one</em> walking <em>in</em> his uprightness. <a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But draw near hither, ye sons of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the whore. <a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Against whom do ye sport yourselves? against whom make ye a wide mouth, <em>and</em> draw out the tongue? <em>are</em> ye not children of transgression, a seed of falsehood, <a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Enflaming yourselves with idols under every green tree, slaying the children in the valleys under the clifts of the rocks? <a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Among the smooth <em>stones</em> of the stream <em>is</em> thy portion; they, they <em>are</em> thy lot: even to them hast thou poured a drink offering, thou hast offered a meat offering. Should I receive comfort in these? <a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Upon a lofty and high mountain hast thou set thy bed: even thither wentest thou up to offer sacrifice. <a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behind the doors also and the posts hast thou set up thy remembrance: for thou hast discovered <em>thyself to another</em> than me, and art gone up; thou hast enlarged thy bed, and made thee <em>a covenant</em> with them; thou lovedst their bed where thou sawest <em>it</em>. <a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou wentest to the king with ointment, and didst increase thy perfumes, and didst send thy messengers far off, and didst debase <em>thyself even</em> unto hell. <a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou art wearied in the greatness of thy way; <em>yet</em> saidst thou not, There is no hope: thou hast found the life of thine hand; therefore thou wast not grieved. <a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And of whom hast thou been afraid or feared, that thou hast lied, and hast not remembered me, nor laid <em>it</em> to thy heart? have not I held my peace even of old, and thou fearest me not? <a id="c57_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will declare thy righteousness, and thy works; for they shall not profit thee. <a id="c57_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When thou criest, let thy companies deliver thee; but the wind shall carry them all away; vanity shall take <em>them</em>: but he that putteth his trust in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holy mountain; <a id="c57_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And shall say, Cast ye up, cast ye up, prepare the way, take up the stumblingblock out of the way of my people. <a id="c57_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name <em>is</em> Holy; I dwell in the high and holy <em>place</em>, with him also <em>that is</em> of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones. <a id="c57_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I will not contend for ever, neither will I be always wroth: for the spirit should fail before me, and the souls <em>which</em> I have made. <a id="c57_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and smote him: I hid me, and was wroth, and he went on frowardly in the way of his heart. <a id="c57_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will lead him also, and restore comforts unto him and to his mourners. <a id="c57_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I create the fruit of the lips; Peace, peace to <em>him that is</em> far off, and to <em>him that is</em> near, saith the LORD; and I will heal him. <a id="c57_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the wicked <em>are</em> like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt. <a id="c57_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> <em>There is</em> no peace, saith my God, to the wicked.

</body>
</html>