<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 60</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 60</h2>

<a id="c60_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the LORD is risen upon thee. <a id="c60_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people: but the LORD shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee. <a id="c60_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising. <a id="c60_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lift up thine eyes round about, and see: all they gather themselves together, they come to thee: thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters shall be nursed at <em>thy</em> side. <a id="c60_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then thou shalt see, and flow together, and thine heart shall fear, and be enlarged; because the abundance of the sea shall be converted unto thee, the forces of the Gentiles shall come unto thee. <a id="c60_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The multitude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah; all they from Sheba shall come: they shall bring gold and incense; and they shall shew forth the praises of the LORD. <a id="c60_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered together unto thee, the rams of Nebaioth shall minister unto thee: they shall come up with acceptance on mine altar, and I will glorify the house of my glory. <a id="c60_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who <em>are</em> these <em>that</em> fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows? <a id="c60_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely the isles shall wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish first, to bring thy sons from far, their silver and their gold with them, unto the name of the LORD thy God, and to the Holy One of Israel, because he hath glorified thee. <a id="c60_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the sons of strangers shall build up thy walls, and their kings shall minister unto thee: for in my wrath I smote thee, but in my favour have I had mercy on thee. <a id="c60_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore thy gates shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night; that <em>men</em> may bring unto thee the forces of the Gentiles, and <em>that</em> their kings <em>may be</em> brought. <a id="c60_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the nation and kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish; yea, <em>those</em> nations shall be utterly wasted. <a id="c60_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The glory of Lebanon shall come unto thee, the fir tree, the pine tree, and the box together, to beautify the place of my sanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious. <a id="c60_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sons also of them that afflicted thee shall come bending unto thee; and all they that despised thee shall bow themselves down at the soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee, The city of the LORD, The Zion of the Holy One of Israel. <a id="c60_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whereas thou hast been forsaken and hated, so that no man went through <em>thee</em>, I will make thee an eternal excellency, a joy of many generations. <a id="c60_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou shalt also suck the milk of the Gentiles, and shalt suck the breast of kings: and thou shalt know that I the LORD <em>am</em> thy Saviour and thy Redeemer, the mighty One of Jacob. <a id="c60_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For brass I will bring gold, and for iron I will bring silver, and for wood brass, and for stones iron: I will also make thy officers peace, and thine exactors righteousness. <a id="c60_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Violence shall no more be heard in thy land, wasting nor destruction within thy borders; but thou shalt call thy walls Salvation, and thy gates Praise. <a id="c60_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sun shall be no more thy light by day; neither for brightness shall the moon give light unto thee: but the LORD shall be unto thee an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory. <a id="c60_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thy sun shall no more go down; neither shall thy moon withdraw itself: for the LORD shall be thine everlasting light, and the days of thy mourning shall be ended. <a id="c60_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thy people also <em>shall be</em> all righteous: they shall inherit the land for ever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified. <a id="c60_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a strong nation: I the LORD will hasten it in his time.

</body>
</html>