<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 35</h2>

<a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the LORD, <em>and</em> the excellency of our God. <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Say to them <em>that are</em> of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come <em>with</em> vengeance, <em>even</em> God <em>with</em> a recompence; he will come and save you. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then shall the lame <em>man</em> leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert. <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water: in the habitation of dragons, where each lay, <em>shall be</em> grass with reeds and rushes. <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it; but it <em>shall be</em> for those: the wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err <em>therein</em>. <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> No lion shall be there, nor <em>any</em> ravenous beast shall go up thereon, it shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk <em>there</em>: <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the ransomed of the LORD shall return, and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.

</body>
</html>