<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 53</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 53</h2>

<a id="c53_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who hath believed our report? and to whom is the arm of the LORD revealed? <a id="c53_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, <em>there is</em> no beauty that we should desire him. <a id="c53_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were <em>our</em> faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not. <a id="c53_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. <a id="c53_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But he <em>was</em> wounded for our transgressions, <em>he was</em> bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace <em>was</em> upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. <a id="c53_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the LORD hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. <a id="c53_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth. <a id="c53_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declare his generation? for he was cut off out of the land of the living: for the transgression of my people was he stricken. <a id="c53_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his death; because he had done no violence, neither <em>was any</em> deceit in his mouth. <a id="c53_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet it pleased the LORD to bruise him; he hath put <em>him</em> to grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see <em>his</em> seed, he shall prolong <em>his</em> days, and the pleasure of the LORD shall prosper in his hand. <a id="c53_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He shall see of the travail of his soul, <em>and</em> shall be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many; for he shall bear their iniquities. <a id="c53_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore will I divide him <em>a portion</em> with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured out his soul unto death: and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.

</body>
</html>