<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 41</h2>

<a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Keep silence before me, O islands; and let the people renew <em>their</em> strength: let them come near; then let them speak: let us come near together to judgment. <a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who raised up the righteous <em>man</em> from the east, called him to his foot, gave the nations before him, and made <em>him</em> rule over kings? he gave <em>them</em> as the dust to his sword, <em>and</em> as driven stubble to his bow. <a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He pursued them, <em>and</em> passed safely; <em>even</em> by the way <em>that</em> he had not gone with his feet. <a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who hath wrought and done <em>it</em>, calling the generations from the beginning? I the LORD, the first, and with the last; I <em>am</em> he. <a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The isles saw <em>it</em>, and feared; the ends of the earth were afraid, drew near, and came. <a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They helped every one his neighbour; and <em>every one</em> said to his brother, Be of good courage. <a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So the carpenter encouraged the goldsmith, <em>and</em> he that smootheth <em>with</em> the hammer him that smote the anvil, saying, It <em>is</em> ready for the sodering: and he fastened it with nails, <em>that</em> it should not be moved. <a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But thou, Israel, <em>art</em> my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend. <a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>Thou</em> whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou <em>art</em> my servant; I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away. <a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Fear thou not; for I <em>am</em> with thee: be not dismayed; for I <em>am</em> thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. <a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded: they shall be as nothing; and they that strive with thee shall perish. <a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them, <em>even</em> them that contended with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a thing of nought. <a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I the LORD thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee. <a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Fear not, thou worm Jacob, <em>and</em> ye men of Israel; I will help thee, saith the LORD, and thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. <a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument having teeth: thou shalt thresh the mountains, and beat <em>them</em> small, and shalt make the hills as chaff. <a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the LORD, <em>and</em> shalt glory in the Holy One of Israel. <a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> <em>When</em> the poor and needy seek water, and <em>there is</em> none, <em>and</em> their tongue faileth for thirst, I the LORD will hear them, I the God of Israel will not forsake them. <a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will open rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of the valleys: I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water. <a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree, and the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fir tree, <em>and</em> the pine, and the box tree together: <a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> That they may see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of the LORD hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it. <a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Produce your cause, saith the LORD; bring forth your strong <em>reasons</em>, saith the King of Jacob. <a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let them bring <em>them</em> forth, and shew us what shall happen: let them shew the former things, what they <em>be</em>, that we may consider them, and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come. <a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that ye <em>are</em> gods: yea, do good, or do evil, that we may be dismayed, and behold <em>it</em> together. <a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Behold, ye <em>are</em> of nothing, and your work of nought: an abomination <em>is he that</em> chooseth you. <a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have raised up <em>one</em> from the north, and he shall come: from the rising of the sun shall he call upon my name: and he shall come upon princes as <em>upon</em> morter, and as the potter treadeth clay. <a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may know? and beforetime, that we may say, <em>He is</em> righteous? yea, <em>there is</em> none that sheweth, yea, <em>there is</em> none that declareth, yea, <em>there is</em> none that heareth your words. <a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The first <em>shall say</em> to Zion, Behold, behold them: and I will give to Jerusalem one that bringeth good tidings. <a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For I beheld, and <em>there was</em> no man; even among them, and <em>there was</em> no counsellor, that, when I asked of them, could answer a word. <a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Behold, they <em>are</em> all vanity; their works <em>are</em> nothing: their molten images <em>are</em> wind and confusion.

</body>
</html>