<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 34</h2>

<a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Come near, ye nations, to hear; and hearken, ye people: let the earth hear, and all that is therein; the world, and all things that come forth of it. <a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the indignation of the LORD <em>is</em> upon all nations, and <em>his</em> fury upon all their armies: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hath delivered them to the slaughter. <a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Their slain also shall be cast out, and their stink shall come up out of their carcases, and the mountains shall be melted with their blood. <a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll: and all their host shall fall down, as the leaf falleth off from the vine, and as a falling <em>fig</em> from the fig tree. <a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For my sword shall be bathed in heaven: behold, it shall come down upon Idumea, and upon the people of my curse, to judgment. <a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The sword of the LORD is filled with blood, it is made fat with fatness, <em>and</em> with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams: for the LORD hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Idumea. <a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the unicorns shall come down with them, and the bullocks with the bulls; and their land shall be soaked with blood, and their dust made fat with fatness. <a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For <em>it is</em> the day of the LORD'S vengeance, <em>and</em> the year of recompences for the controversy of Zion. <a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the streams thereof shall be turned into pitch, and the dust thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shall become burning pitch. <a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shall go up for ever: from generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it for ever and ever. <a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the cormorant and the bittern shall possess it; the owl also and the raven shall dwell in it: and he shall stretch out upon it the line of confusion, and the stones of emptiness. <a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They shall call the nobles thereof to the kingdom, but none <em>shall be</em> there, and all her princes shall be nothing. <a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thorns shall come up in her palaces, nettles and brambles in the fortresses thereof: and it shall be an habitation of dragons, <em>and</em> a court for owls. <a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wild beasts of the desert shall also meet with the wild beasts of the island, and the satyr shall cry to his fellow; the screech owl also shall rest there, and find for herself a place of rest. <a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There shall the great owl make her nest, and lay, and hatch, and gather under her shadow: there shall the vultures also be gathered, every one with her mate. <a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Seek ye out of the book of the LORD, and read: no one of these shall fail, none shall want her mate: for my mouth it hath commanded, and his spirit it hath gathered them. <a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he hath cast the lot for them, and his hand hath divided it unto them by line: they shall possess it for ever, from generation to generation shall they dwell therein.

</body>
</html>