<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 56</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 56</h2>

<a id="c56_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus saith the LORD, Keep ye judgment, and do justice: for my salvation <em>is</em> near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed. <a id="c56_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed <em>is</em> the man <em>that</em> doeth this, and the son of man <em>that</em> layeth hold on it; that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and keepeth his hand from doing any evil. <a id="c56_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Neither let the son of the stranger, that hath joined himself to the LORD, speak, saying, The LORD hath utterly separated me from his people: neither let the eunuch say, Behold, I <em>am</em> a dry tree. <a id="c56_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus saith the LORD unto the eunuchs that keep my sabbaths, and choose <em>the things</em> that please me, and take hold of my covenant; <a id="c56_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Even unto them will I give in mine house and within my walls a place and a name better than of sons and of daughters: I will give them an everlasting name, that shall not be cut off. <a id="c56_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Also the sons of the stranger, that join themselves to the LORD, to serve him, and to love the name of the LORD, to be his servants, every one that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and taketh hold of my covenant; <a id="c56_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Even them will I bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer: their burnt offerings and their sacrifices <em>shall be</em> accepted upon mine altar; for mine house shall be called an house of prayer for all people. <a id="c56_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord GOD which gathereth the outcasts of Israel saith, Yet will I gather <em>others</em> to him, beside those that are gathered unto him. <a id="c56_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, <em>yea</em>, all ye beasts in the forest. <a id="c56_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His watchmen <em>are</em> blind: they are all ignorant, they <em>are</em> all dumb dogs, they cannot bark; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber. <a id="c56_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yea, <em>they are</em> greedy dogs <em>which</em> can never have enough, and they <em>are</em> shepherds <em>that</em> cannot understand: they all look to their own way, every one for his gain, from his quarter. <a id="c56_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Come ye, <em>say they</em>, I will fetch wine, and we will fill ourselves with strong drink; and to morrow shall be as this day, <em>and</em> much more abundant.

</body>
</html>