<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 58</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 58</h2>

<a id="c58_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and shew my people their transgression, and the house of Jacob their sins. <a id="c58_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yet they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways, as a nation that did righteousness, and forsook not the ordinance of their God: they ask of me the ordinances of justice; they take delight in approaching to God. <a id="c58_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Wherefore have we fasted, <em>say they</em>, and thou seest not? <em>wherefore</em> have we afflicted our soul, and thou takest no knowledge? Behold, in the day of your fast ye find pleasure, and exact all your labours. <a id="c58_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, ye fast for strife and debate, and to smite with the fist of wickedness: ye shall not fast as <em>ye do this</em> day, to make your voice to be heard on high. <a id="c58_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Is it such a fast that I have chosen? a day for a man to afflict his soul? <em>is it</em> to bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes <em>under him</em>? wilt thou call this a fast, and an acceptable day to the LORD? <a id="c58_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> <em>Is</em> not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke? <a id="c58_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>Is it</em> not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh? <a id="c58_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily: and thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of the LORD shall be thy rereward. <a id="c58_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then shalt thou call, and the LORD shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I <em>am</em>. If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanity; <a id="c58_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And <em>if</em> thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness <em>be</em> as the noonday: <a id="c58_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the LORD shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not. <a id="c58_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And <em>they that shall be</em> of thee shall build the old waste places: thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in. <a id="c58_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, <em>from</em> doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the LORD, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking <em>thine own</em> words: <a id="c58_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then shalt thou delight thyself in the LORD; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken <em>it</em>.

</body>
</html>