<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 50</h2>

<a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus saith the LORD, Where <em>is</em> the bill of your mother's divorcement, whom I have put away? or which of my creditors <em>is it</em> to whom I have sold you? Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away. <a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wherefore, when I came, <em>was there</em> no man? when I called, <em>was there</em> none to answer? Is my hand shortened at all, that it cannot redeem? or have I no power to deliver? behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make the rivers a wilderness: their fish stinketh, because <em>there is</em> no water, and dieth for thirst. <a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their covering. <a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Lord GOD hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to <em>him that is</em> weary: he wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear as the learned. <a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The Lord GOD hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebellious, neither turned away back. <a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair: I hid not my face from shame and spitting. <a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the Lord GOD will help me; therefore shall I not be confounded: therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed. <a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>He is</em> near that justifieth me; who will contend with me? let us stand together: who <em>is</em> mine adversary? let him come near to me. <a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the Lord GOD will help me; who <em>is</em> he <em>that</em> shall condemn me? lo, they all shall wax old as a garment; the moth shall eat them up. <a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who <em>is</em> among you that feareth the LORD, that obeyeth the voice of his servant, that walketh <em>in</em> darkness, and hath no light? let him trust in the name of the LORD, and stay upon his God. <a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that compass <em>yourselves</em> about with sparks: walk in the light of your fire, and in the sparks <em>that</em> ye have kindled. This shall ye have of mine hand; ye shall lie down in sorrow.

</body>
</html>