<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 33</h2>

<a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to thee that spoilest, and thou <em>wast</em> not spoiled; and dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! when thou shalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be spoiled; <em>and</em> when thou shalt make an end to deal treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O LORD, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thou their arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble. <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> At the noise of the tumult the people fled; at the lifting up of thyself the nations were scattered. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And your spoil shall be gathered <em>like</em> the gathering of the caterpiller: as the running to and fro of locusts shall he run upon them. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The LORD is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion with judgment and righteousness. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And wisdom and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times, <em>and</em> strength of salvation: the fear of the LORD <em>is</em> his treasure. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, their valiant ones shall cry without: the ambassadors of peace shall weep bitterly. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: he hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth no man. <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The earth mourneth <em>and</em> languisheth: Lebanon is ashamed <em>and</em> hewn down: Sharon is like a wilderness; and Bashan and Carmel shake off <em>their fruits</em>. <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now will I rise, saith the LORD; now will I be exalted; now will I lift up myself. <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth stubble: your breath, <em>as</em> fire, shall devour you. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the people shall be <em>as</em> the burnings of lime: <em>as</em> thorns cut up shall they be burned in the fire. <a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hear, ye <em>that are</em> far off, what I have done; and, ye <em>that are</em> near, acknowledge my might. <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sinners in Zion are afraid; fearfulness hath surprised the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings? <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil; <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He shall dwell on high: his place of defence <em>shall be</em> the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters <em>shall be</em> sure. <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold the land that is very far off. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thine heart shall meditate terror. Where <em>is</em> the scribe? where <em>is</em> the receiver? where <em>is</em> he that counted the towers? <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou shalt not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst perceive; of a stammering tongue, <em>that thou canst</em> not understand. <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle <em>that</em> shall not be taken down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken. <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But there the glorious LORD <em>will be</em> unto us a place of broad rivers <em>and</em> streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby. <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For the LORD <em>is</em> our judge, the LORD <em>is</em> our lawgiver, the LORD <em>is</em> our king; he will save us. <a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not well strengthen their mast, they could not spread the sail: then is the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame take the prey. <a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein <em>shall be</em> forgiven <em>their</em> iniquity.

</body>
</html>