<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 24</h2>

<a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, the LORD maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so with the giver of usury to him. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled: for the LORD hath spoken this word. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The earth mourneth <em>and</em> fadeth away, the world languisheth <em>and</em> fadeth away, the haughty people of the earth do languish. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are desolate: therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth, all the merryhearted do sigh. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The mirth of tabrets ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoice endeth, the joy of the harp ceaseth. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They shall not drink wine with a song; strong drink shall be bitter to them that drink it. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The city of confusion is broken down: every house is shut up, that no man may come in. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>There is</em> a crying for wine in the streets; all joy is darkened, the mirth of the land is gone. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In the city is left desolation, and the gate is smitten with destruction. <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people, <em>there shall be</em> as the shaking of an olive tree, <em>and</em> as the gleaning grapes when the vintage is done. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They shall lift up their voice, they shall sing for the majesty of the LORD, they shall cry aloud from the sea. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Wherefore glorify ye the LORD in the fires, <em>even</em> the name of the LORD God of Israel in the isles of the sea. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs, <em>even</em> glory to the righteous. But I said, My leanness, my leanness, woe unto me! the treacherous dealers have dealt treacherously; yea, the treacherous dealers have dealt very treacherously. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fear, and the pit, and the snare, <em>are</em> upon thee, O inhabitant of the earth. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it shall come to pass, <em>that</em> he who fleeth from the noise of the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that cometh up out of the midst of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for the windows from on high are open, and the foundations of the earth do shake. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The earth is utterly broken down, the earth is clean dissolved, the earth is moved exceedingly. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall be removed like a cottage; and the transgression thereof shall be heavy upon it; and it shall fall, and not rise again. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, <em>that</em> the LORD shall punish the host of the high ones <em>that are</em> on high, and the kings of the earth upon the earth. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they shall be gathered together, <em>as</em> prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison, and after many days shall they be visited. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed, when the LORD of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before his ancients gloriously.

</body>
</html>