<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 54</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 54</h2>

<a id="c54_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Sing, O barren, thou <em>that</em> didst not bear; break forth into singing, and cry aloud, thou <em>that</em> didst not travail with child: for more <em>are</em> the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith the LORD. <a id="c54_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thine habitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy stakes; <a id="c54_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left; and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities to be inhabited. <a id="c54_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Fear not; for thou shalt not be ashamed: neither be thou confounded; for thou shalt not be put to shame: for thou shalt forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thy widowhood any more. <a id="c54_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thy Maker <em>is</em> thine husband; the LORD of hosts <em>is</em> his name; and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel; The God of the whole earth shall he be called. <a id="c54_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the LORD hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, and a wife of youth, when thou wast refused, saith thy God. <a id="c54_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but with great mercies will I gather thee. <a id="c54_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment; but with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the LORD thy Redeemer. <a id="c54_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this <em>is as</em> the waters of Noah unto me: for <em>as</em> I have sworn that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth; so have I sworn that I would not be wroth with thee, nor rebuke thee. <a id="c54_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the LORD that hath mercy on thee. <a id="c54_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, <em>and</em> not comforted, behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colours, and lay thy foundations with sapphires. <a id="c54_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will make thy windows of agates, and thy gates of carbuncles, and all thy borders of pleasant stones. <a id="c54_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And all thy children <em>shall be</em> taught of the LORD; and great <em>shall be</em> the peace of thy children. <a id="c54_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In righteousness shalt thou be established: thou shalt be far from oppression; for thou shalt not fear: and from terror; for it shall not come near thee. <a id="c54_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, they shall surely gather together, <em>but</em> not by me: whosoever shall gather together against thee shall fall for thy sake. <a id="c54_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in the fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and I have created the waster to destroy. <a id="c54_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue <em>that</em> shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This <em>is</em> the heritage of the servants of the LORD, and their righteousness <em>is</em> of me, saith the LORD.

</body>
</html>