<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 63</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 63</h2>

<a id="c63_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who <em>is</em> this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? this <em>that is</em> glorious in his apparel, travelling in the greatness of his strength? I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save. <a id="c63_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wherefore <em>art thou</em> red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that treadeth in the winefat? <a id="c63_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the people <em>there was</em> none with me: for I will tread them in mine anger, and trample them in my fury; and their blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment. <a id="c63_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the day of vengeance <em>is</em> in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is come. <a id="c63_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I looked, and <em>there was</em> none to help; and I wondered that <em>there was</em> none to uphold: therefore mine own arm brought salvation unto me; and my fury, it upheld me. <a id="c63_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will tread down the people in mine anger, and make them drunk in my fury, and I will bring down their strength to the earth. <a id="c63_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will mention the lovingkindnesses of the LORD, <em>and</em> the praises of the LORD, according to all that the LORD hath bestowed on us, and the great goodness toward the house of Israel, which he hath bestowed on them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses. <a id="c63_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he said, Surely they <em>are</em> my people, children <em>that</em> will not lie: so he was their Saviour. <a id="c63_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them: in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; and he bare them, and carried them all the days of old. <a id="c63_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But they rebelled, and vexed his holy Spirit: therefore he was turned to be their enemy, <em>and</em> he fought against them. <a id="c63_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then he remembered the days of old, Moses, <em>and</em> his people, <em>saying</em>, Where <em>is</em> he that brought them up out of the sea with the shepherd of his flock? where <em>is</em> he that put his holy Spirit within him? <a id="c63_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> That led <em>them</em> by the right hand of Moses with his glorious arm, dividing the water before them, to make himself an everlasting name? <a id="c63_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That led them through the deep, as an horse in the wilderness, <em>that</em> they should not stumble? <a id="c63_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As a beast goeth down into the valley, the Spirit of the LORD caused him to rest: so didst thou lead thy people, to make thyself a glorious name. <a id="c63_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Look down from heaven, and behold from the habitation of thy holiness and of thy glory: where <em>is</em> thy zeal and thy strength, the sounding of thy bowels and of thy mercies toward me? are they restrained? <a id="c63_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Doubtless thou <em>art</em> our father, though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not: thou, O LORD, <em>art</em> our father, our redeemer; thy name <em>is</em> from everlasting. <a id="c63_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> O LORD, why hast thou made us to err from thy ways, <em>and</em> hardened our heart from thy fear? Return for thy servants' sake, the tribes of thine inheritance. <a id="c63_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The people of thy holiness have possessed <em>it</em> but a little while: our adversaries have trodden down thy sanctuary. <a id="c63_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> We are <em>thine</em>: thou never barest rule over them; they were not called by thy name.

</body>
</html>