<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 10</h2>

<a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write grievousness <em>which</em> they have prescribed; <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, and <em>that</em> they may rob the fatherless! <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the desolation <em>which</em> shall come from far? to whom will ye flee for help? and where will ye leave your glory? <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Without me they shall bow down under the prisoners, and they shall fall under the slain. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand <em>is</em> stretched out still. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their hand is mine indignation. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will send him against an hypocritical nation, and against the people of my wrath will I give him a charge, to take the spoil, and to take the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; but <em>it is</em> in his heart to destroy and cut off nations not a few. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he saith, <em>Are</em> not my princes altogether kings? <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>Is</em> not Calno as Carchemish? <em>is</em> not Hamath as Arpad? <em>is</em> not Samaria as Damascus? <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As my hand hath found the kingdoms of the idols, and whose graven images did excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria; <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do to Jerusalem and her idols? <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore it shall come to pass, <em>that</em> when the Lord hath performed his whole work upon mount Zion and on Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of his high looks. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For he saith, By the strength of my hand I have done <em>it</em>, and by my wisdom; for I am prudent: and I have removed the bounds of the people, and have robbed their treasures, and I have put down the inhabitants like a valiant <em>man</em>: <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And my hand hath found as a nest the riches of the people: and as one gathereth eggs <em>that are</em> left, have I gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or peeped. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Shall the axe boast itself against him that heweth therewith? <em>or</em> shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it? as if the rod should shake <em>itself</em> against them that lift it up, <em>or</em> as if the staff should lift up <em>itself, as if it were</em> no wood. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among his fat ones leanness; and under his glory he shall kindle a burning like the burning of a fire. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the light of Israel shall be for a fire, and his Holy One for a flame: and it shall burn and devour his thorns and his briers in one day; <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his fruitful field, both soul and body: and they shall be as when a standardbearer fainteth. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the rest of the trees of his forest shall be few, that a child may write them. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, <em>that</em> the remnant of Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no more again stay upon him that smote them; but shall stay upon the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, in truth. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The remnant shall return, <em>even</em> the remnant of Jacob, unto the mighty God. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For though thy people Israel be as the sand of the sea, <em>yet</em> a remnant of them shall return: the consumption decreed shall overflow with righteousness. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the Lord GOD of hosts shall make a consumption, even determined, in the midst of all the land. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD of hosts, O my people that dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrian: he shall smite thee with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee, after the manner of Egypt. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For yet a very little while, and the indignation shall cease, and mine anger in their destruction. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the LORD of hosts shall stir up a scourge for him according to the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb: and <em>as</em> his rod <em>was</em> upon the sea, so shall he lift it up after the manner of Egypt. <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, <em>that</em> his burden shall be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Michmash he hath laid up his carriages: <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> They are gone over the passage: they have taken up their lodging at Geba; Ramah is afraid; Gibeah of Saul is fled. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Lift up thy voice, O daughter of Gallim: cause it to be heard unto Laish, O poor Anathoth. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Madmenah is removed; the inhabitants of Gebim gather themselves to flee. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> As yet shall he remain at Nob that day: he shall shake his hand <em>against</em> the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem. <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Behold, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, shall lop the bough with terror: and the high ones of stature <em>shall be</em> hewn down, and the haughty shall be humbled. <a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he shall cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, and Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one.

</body>
</html>