<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 40</h2>

<a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned: for she hath received of the LORD'S hand double for all her sins. <a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the LORD, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. <a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain: <a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the glory of the LORD shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see <em>it</em> together: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken <em>it</em>. <a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The voice said, Cry. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh <em>is</em> grass, and all the goodliness thereof <em>is</em> as the flower of the field: <a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: because the spirit of the LORD bloweth upon it: surely the people <em>is</em> grass. <a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: but the word of our God shall stand for ever. <a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the high mountain; O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift up thy voice with strength; lift <em>it</em> up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God! <a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, the Lord GOD will come with strong <em>hand</em>, and his arm shall rule for him: behold, his reward <em>is</em> with him, and his work before him. <a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry <em>them</em> in his bosom, <em>and</em> shall gently lead those that are with young. <a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance? <a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who hath directed the Spirit of the LORD, or <em>being</em> his counsellor hath taught him? <a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> With whom took he counsel, and <em>who</em> instructed him, and taught him in the path of judgment, and taught him knowledge, and shewed to him the way of understanding? <a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, the nations <em>are</em> as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small dust of the balance: behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little thing. <a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Lebanon <em>is</em> not sufficient to burn, nor the beasts thereof sufficient for a burnt offering. <a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All nations before him <em>are</em> as nothing; and they are counted to him less than nothing, and vanity. <a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To whom then will ye liken God? or what likeness will ye compare unto him? <a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The workman melteth a graven image, and the goldsmith spreadeth it over with gold, and casteth silver chains. <a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He that <em>is</em> so impoverished that he hath no oblation chooseth a tree <em>that</em> will not rot; he seeketh unto him a cunning workman to prepare a graven image, <em>that</em> shall not be moved. <a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Have ye not known? have ye not heard? hath it not been told you from the beginning? have ye not understood from the foundations of the earth? <a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> <em>It is</em> he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof <em>are</em> as grasshoppers; that stretcheth out the heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in: <a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> That bringeth the princes to nothing; he maketh the judges of the earth as vanity. <a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they shall not be sown: yea, their stock shall not take root in the earth: and he shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take them away as stubble. <a id="c40_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> To whom then will ye liken me, or shall I be equal? saith the Holy One. <a id="c40_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Lift up your eyes on high, and behold who hath created these <em>things</em>, that bringeth out their host by number: he calleth them all by names by the greatness of his might, for that <em>he is</em> strong in power; not one faileth. <a id="c40_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid from the LORD, and my judgment is passed over from my God? <a id="c40_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, <em>that</em> the everlasting God, the LORD, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? <em>there is</em> no searching of his understanding. <a id="c40_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He giveth power to the faint; and to <em>them that have</em> no might he increaseth strength. <a id="c40_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall: <a id="c40_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But they that wait upon the LORD shall renew <em>their</em> strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; <em>and</em> they shall walk, and not faint.

</body>
</html>