<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 48</h2>

<a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, which are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, which swear by the name of the LORD, and make mention of the God of Israel, <em>but</em> not in truth, nor in righteousness. <a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves upon the God of Israel; The LORD of hosts <em>is</em> his name. <a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have declared the former things from the beginning; and they went forth out of my mouth, and I shewed them; I did <em>them</em> suddenly, and they came to pass. <a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because I knew that thou <em>art</em> obstinate, and thy neck <em>is</em> an iron sinew, and thy brow brass; <a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have even from the beginning declared <em>it</em> to thee; before it came to pass I shewed <em>it</em> thee: lest thou shouldest say, Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and my molten image, hath commanded them. <a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou hast heard, see all this; and will not ye declare <em>it</em>? I have shewed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, and thou didst not know them. <a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are created now, and not from the beginning; even before the day when thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I knew them. <a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yea, thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from that time <em>that</em> thine ear was not opened: for I knew that thou wouldest deal very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb. <a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For my name's sake will I defer mine anger, and for my praise will I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off. <a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver; I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. <a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For mine own sake, <em>even</em> for mine own sake, will I do <em>it</em>: for how should <em>my name</em> be polluted? and I will not give my glory unto another. <a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called; I <em>am</em> he; I <em>am</em> the first, I also <em>am</em> the last. <a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Mine hand also hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand hath spanned the heavens: <em>when</em> I call unto them, they stand up together. <a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; which among them hath declared these <em>things</em>? The LORD hath loved him: he will do his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm <em>shall be on</em> the Chaldeans. <a id="c48_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I, <em>even</em> I, have spoken; yea, I have called him: I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous. <a id="c48_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; I have not spoken in secret from the beginning; from the time that it was, there <em>am</em> I: and now the Lord GOD, and his Spirit, hath sent me. <a id="c48_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thus saith the LORD, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I <em>am</em> the LORD thy God which teacheth thee to profit, which leadeth thee by the way <em>that</em> thou shouldest go. <a id="c48_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea: <a id="c48_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut off nor destroyed from before me. <a id="c48_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it <em>even</em> to the end of the earth; say ye, The LORD hath redeemed his servant Jacob. <a id="c48_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they thirsted not <em>when</em> he led them through the deserts: he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them: he clave the rock also, and the waters gushed out. <a id="c48_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> <em>There is</em> no peace, saith the LORD, unto the wicked.

</body>
</html>