<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 64</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 64</h2>

<a id="c64_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that thou wouldest come down, that the mountains might flow down at thy presence, <a id="c64_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As <em>when</em> the melting fire burneth, the fire causeth the waters to boil, to make thy name known to thine adversaries, <em>that</em> the nations may tremble at thy presence! <a id="c64_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When thou didst terrible things <em>which</em> we looked not for, thou camest down, the mountains flowed down at thy presence. <a id="c64_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For since the beginning of the world <em>men</em> have not heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God, beside thee, <em>what</em> he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him. <a id="c64_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, <em>those that</em> remember thee in thy ways: behold, thou art wroth; for we have sinned: in those is continuance, and we shall be saved. <a id="c64_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But we are all as an unclean <em>thing</em>, and all our righteousnesses <em>are</em> as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away. <a id="c64_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And <em>there is</em> none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee: for thou hast hid thy face from us, and hast consumed us, because of our iniquities. <a id="c64_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But now, O LORD, thou <em>art</em> our father; we <em>are</em> the clay, and thou our potter; and we all <em>are</em> the work of thy hand. <a id="c64_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be not wroth very sore, O LORD, neither remember iniquity for ever: behold, see, we beseech thee, we <em>are</em> all thy people. <a id="c64_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy holy cities are a wilderness, Zion is a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation. <a id="c64_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praised thee, is burned up with fire: and all our pleasant things are laid waste. <a id="c64_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wilt thou refrain thyself for these <em>things</em>, O LORD? wilt thou hold thy peace, and afflict us very sore?

</body>
</html>