<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 51</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 51</h2>

<a id="c51_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hearken to me, ye that follow after righteousness, ye that seek the LORD: look unto the rock <em>whence</em> ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit <em>whence</em> ye are digged. <a id="c51_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Look unto Abraham your father, and unto Sarah <em>that</em> bare you: for I called him alone, and blessed him, and increased him. <a id="c51_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the LORD shall comfort Zion: he will comfort all her waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the LORD; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody. <a id="c51_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Hearken unto me, my people; and give ear unto me, O my nation: for a law shall proceed from me, and I will make my judgment to rest for a light of the people. <a id="c51_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My righteousness <em>is</em> near; my salvation is gone forth, and mine arms shall judge the people; the isles shall wait upon me, and on mine arm shall they trust. <a id="c51_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth beneath: for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell therein shall die in like manner: but my salvation shall be for ever, and my righteousness shall not be abolished. <a id="c51_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the people in whose heart <em>is</em> my law; fear ye not the reproach of men, neither be ye afraid of their revilings. <a id="c51_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall eat them like wool: but my righteousness shall be for ever, and my salvation from generation to generation. <a id="c51_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the LORD; awake, as in the ancient days, in the generations of old. <em>Art</em> thou not it that hath cut Rahab, <em>and</em> wounded the dragon? <a id="c51_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>Art</em> thou not it which hath dried the sea, the waters of the great deep; that hath made the depths of the sea a way for the ransomed to pass over? <a id="c51_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore the redeemed of the LORD shall return, and come with singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy <em>shall be</em> upon their head: they shall obtain gladness and joy; <em>and</em> sorrow and mourning shall flee away. <a id="c51_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I, <em>even</em> I, <em>am</em> he that comforteth you: who <em>art</em> thou, that thou shouldest be afraid of a man <em>that</em> shall die, and of the son of man <em>which</em> shall be made <em>as</em> grass; <a id="c51_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And forgettest the LORD thy maker, that hath stretched forth the heavens, and laid the foundations of the earth; and hast feared continually every day because of the fury of the oppressor, as if he were ready to destroy? and where <em>is</em> the fury of the oppressor? <a id="c51_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The captive exile hasteneth that he may be loosed, and that he should not die in the pit, nor that his bread should fail. <a id="c51_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But I <em>am</em> the LORD thy God, that divided the sea, whose waves roared: The LORD of hosts <em>is</em> his name. <a id="c51_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I have put my words in thy mouth, and I have covered thee in the shadow of mine hand, that I may plant the heavens, and lay the foundations of the earth, and say unto Zion, Thou <em>art</em> my people. <a id="c51_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the hand of the LORD the cup of his fury; thou hast drunken the dregs of the cup of trembling, <em>and</em> wrung <em>them</em> out. <a id="c51_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> <em>There is</em> none to guide her among all the sons <em>whom</em> she hath brought forth; neither <em>is there any</em> that taketh her by the hand of all the sons <em>that</em> she hath brought up. <a id="c51_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These two <em>things</em> are come unto thee; who shall be sorry for thee? desolation, and destruction, and the famine, and the sword: by whom shall I comfort thee? <a id="c51_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thy sons have fainted, they lie at the head of all the streets, as a wild bull in a net: they are full of the fury of the LORD, the rebuke of thy God. <a id="c51_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunken, but not with wine: <a id="c51_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thus saith thy Lord the LORD, and thy God <em>that</em> pleadeth the cause of his people, Behold, I have taken out of thine hand the cup of trembling, <em>even</em> the dregs of the cup of my fury; thou shalt no more drink it again: <a id="c51_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But I will put it into the hand of them that afflict thee; which have said to thy soul, Bow down, that we may go over: and thou hast laid thy body as the ground, and as the street, to them that went over.

</body>
</html>