<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 31</h2>

<a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help; and stay on horses, and trust in chariots, because <em>they are</em> many; and in horsemen, because they are very strong; but they look not unto the Holy One of Israel, neither seek the LORD! <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yet he also <em>is</em> wise, and will bring evil, and will not call back his words: but will arise against the house of the evildoers, and against the help of them that work iniquity. <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now the Egyptians <em>are</em> men, and not God; and their horses flesh, and not spirit. When the LORD shall stretch out his hand, both he that helpeth shall fall, and he that is holpen shall fall down, and they all shall fail together. <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus hath the LORD spoken unto me, Like as the lion and the young lion roaring on his prey, when a multitude of shepherds is called forth against him, <em>he</em> will not be afraid of their voice, nor abase himself for the noise of them: so shall the LORD of hosts come down to fight for mount Zion, and for the hill thereof. <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As birds flying, so will the LORD of hosts defend Jerusalem; defending also he will deliver <em>it; and</em> passing over he will preserve it. <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Turn ye unto <em>him from</em> whom the children of Israel have deeply revolted. <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For in that day every man shall cast away his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which your own hands have made unto you <em>for</em> a sin. <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then shall the Assyrian fall with the sword, not of a mighty man; and the sword, not of a mean man, shall devour him: but he shall flee from the sword, and his young men shall be discomfited. <a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he shall pass over to his strong hold for fear, and his princes shall be afraid of the ensign, saith the LORD, whose fire <em>is</em> in Zion, and his furnace in Jerusalem.

</body>
</html>