<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 21</h2>

<a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the desert of the sea. As whirlwinds in the south pass through; <em>so</em> it cometh from the desert, from a terrible land. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A grievous vision is declared unto me; the treacherous dealer dealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth. Go up, O Elam: besiege, O Media; all the sighing thereof have I made to cease. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore are my loins filled with pain: pangs have taken hold upon me, as the pangs of a woman that travaileth: I was bowed down at the hearing <em>of it</em>; I was dismayed at the seeing <em>of it</em>. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart panted, fearfulness affrighted me: the night of my pleasure hath he turned into fear unto me. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Prepare the table, watch in the watchtower, eat, drink: arise, ye princes, <em>and</em> anoint the shield. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus hath the Lord said unto me, Go, set a watchman, let him declare what he seeth. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he saw a chariot <em>with</em> a couple of horsemen, a chariot of asses, <em>and</em> a chariot of camels; and he hearkened diligently with much heed: <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he cried, A lion: My lord, I stand continually upon the watchtower in the daytime, and I am set in my ward whole nights: <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And, behold, here cometh a chariot of men, <em>with</em> a couple of horsemen. And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and all the graven images of her gods he hath broken unto the ground. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O my threshing, and the corn of my floor: that which I have heard of the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared unto you. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The burden upon Arabia. In the forest in Arabia shall ye lodge, O ye travelling companies of Dedanim. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The inhabitants of the land of Tema brought water to him that was thirsty, they prevented with their bread him that fled. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For they fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For thus hath the Lord said unto me, Within a year, according to the years of an hireling, and all the glory of Kedar shall fail: <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the residue of the number of archers, the mighty men of the children of Kedar, shall be diminished: for the LORD God of Israel hath spoken <em>it</em>.

</body>
</html>