<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 42</h2>

<a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, <em>in whom</em> my soul delighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. <a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. <a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth. <a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set judgment in the earth: and the isles shall wait for his law. <a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus saith God the LORD, he that created the heavens, and stretched them out; he that spread forth the earth, and that which cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein: <a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I the LORD have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles; <a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison, <em>and</em> them that sit in darkness out of the prison house. <a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I <em>am</em> the LORD: that <em>is</em> my name: and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images. <a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I declare: before they spring forth I tell you of them. <a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Sing unto the LORD a new song, <em>and</em> his praise from the end of the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; the isles, and the inhabitants thereof. <a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up <em>their voice</em>, the villages <em>that</em> Kedar doth inhabit: let the inhabitants of the rock sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains. <a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let them give glory unto the LORD, and declare his praise in the islands. <a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The LORD shall go forth as a mighty man, he shall stir up jealousy like a man of war: he shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail against his enemies. <a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, <em>and</em> refrained myself: <em>now</em> will I cry like a travailing woman; I will destroy and devour at once. <a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and I will dry up the pools. <a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will bring the blind by a way <em>that</em> they knew not; I will lead them in paths <em>that</em> they have not known: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them, and not forsake them. <a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They shall be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, that trust in graven images, that say to the molten images, Ye <em>are</em> our gods. <a id="c42_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye may see. <a id="c42_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who <em>is</em> blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger <em>that</em> I sent? who <em>is</em> blind as <em>he that is</em> perfect, and blind as the LORD'S servant? <a id="c42_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Seeing many things, but thou observest not; opening the ears, but he heareth not. <a id="c42_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The LORD is well pleased for his righteousness' sake; he will magnify the law, and make <em>it</em> honourable. <a id="c42_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But this <em>is</em> a people robbed and spoiled; <em>they are</em> all of them snared in holes, and they are hid in prison houses: they are for a prey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore. <a id="c42_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who among you will give ear to this? <em>who</em> will hearken and hear for the time to come? <a id="c42_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to the robbers? did not the LORD, he against whom we have sinned? for they would not walk in his ways, neither were they obedient unto his law. <a id="c42_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore he hath poured upon him the fury of his anger, and the strength of battle: and it hath set him on fire round about, yet he knew not; and it burned him, yet he laid <em>it</em> not to heart.

</body>
</html>