<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 43</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 43</h2>

<a id="c43_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But now thus saith the LORD that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have called <em>thee</em> by thy name; thou <em>art</em> mine. <a id="c43_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When thou passest through the waters, I <em>will be</em> with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. <a id="c43_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I <em>am</em> the LORD thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: I gave Egypt <em>for</em> thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee. <a id="c43_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Since thou wast precious in my sight, thou hast been honourable, and I have loved thee: therefore will I give men for thee, and people for thy life. <a id="c43_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Fear not: for I <em>am</em> with thee: I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west; <a id="c43_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Keep not back: bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the ends of the earth; <a id="c43_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>Even</em> every one that is called by my name: for I have created him for my glory, I have formed him; yea, I have made him. <a id="c43_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears. <a id="c43_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the people be assembled: who among them can declare this, and shew us former things? let them bring forth their witnesses, that they may be justified: or let them hear, and say, <em>It is</em> truth. <a id="c43_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye <em>are</em> my witnesses, saith the LORD, and my servant whom I have chosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I <em>am</em> he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me. <a id="c43_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I, <em>even</em> I, <em>am</em> the LORD; and beside me <em>there is</em> no saviour. <a id="c43_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have declared, and have saved, and I have shewed, when <em>there was</em> no strange <em>god</em> among you: therefore ye <em>are</em> my witnesses, saith the LORD, that I <em>am</em> God. <a id="c43_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yea, before the day <em>was</em> I <em>am</em> he; and <em>there is</em> none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who shall let it? <a id="c43_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thus saith the LORD, your redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and have brought down all their nobles, and the Chaldeans, whose cry <em>is</em> in the ships. <a id="c43_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I <em>am</em> the LORD, your Holy One, the creator of Israel, your King. <a id="c43_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus saith the LORD, which maketh a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters; <a id="c43_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Which bringeth forth the chariot and horse, the army and the power; they shall lie down together, they shall not rise: they are extinct, they are quenched as tow. <a id="c43_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old. <a id="c43_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, <em>and</em> rivers in the desert. <a id="c43_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The beast of the field shall honour me, the dragons and the owls: because I give waters in the wilderness, <em>and</em> rivers in the desert, to give drink to my people, my chosen. <a id="c43_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> This people have I formed for myself; they shall shew forth my praise. <a id="c43_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob; but thou hast been weary of me, O Israel. <a id="c43_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thou hast not brought me the small cattle of thy burnt offerings; neither hast thou honoured me with thy sacrifices. I have not caused thee to serve with an offering, nor wearied thee with incense. <a id="c43_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices: but thou hast made me to serve with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities. <a id="c43_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I, <em>even</em> I, <em>am</em> he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake, and will not remember thy sins. <a id="c43_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Put me in remembrance: let us plead together: declare thou, that thou mayest be justified. <a id="c43_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thy first father hath sinned, and thy teachers have transgressed against me. <a id="c43_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore I have profaned the princes of the sanctuary, and have given Jacob to the curse, and Israel to reproaches.

</body>
</html>