<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 26</h2>

<a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah; We have a strong city; salvation will <em>God</em> appoint <em>for</em> walls and bulwarks. <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in. <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou wilt keep <em>him</em> in perfect peace, <em>whose</em> mind <em>is</em> stayed <em>on thee</em>: because he trusteth in thee. <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Trust ye in the LORD for ever: for in the LORD JEHOVAH <em>is</em> everlasting strength: <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he bringeth down them that dwell on high; the lofty city, he layeth it low; he layeth it low, <em>even</em> to the ground; he bringeth it <em>even</em> to the dust. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The foot shall tread it down, <em>even</em> the feet of the poor, <em>and</em> the steps of the needy. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The way of the just <em>is</em> uprightness: thou, most upright, dost weigh the path of the just. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O LORD, have we waited for thee; the desire of <em>our</em> soul <em>is</em> to thy name, and to the remembrance of thee. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee early: for when thy judgments <em>are</em> in the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let favour be shewed to the wicked, <em>yet</em> will he not learn righteousness: in the land of uprightness will he deal unjustly, and will not behold the majesty of the LORD. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> LORD, <em>when</em> thy hand is lifted up, they will not see: <em>but</em> they shall see, and be ashamed for <em>their</em> envy at the people; yea, the fire of thine enemies shall devour them. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> LORD, thou wilt ordain peace for us: for thou also hast wrought all our works in us. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O LORD our God, <em>other</em> lords beside thee have had dominion over us: <em>but</em> by thee only will we make mention of thy name. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> <em>They are</em> dead, they shall not live; <em>they are</em> deceased, they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all their memory to perish. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou hast increased the nation, O LORD, thou hast increased the nation: thou art glorified: thou hadst removed <em>it</em> far <em>unto</em> all the ends of the earth. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> LORD, in trouble have they visited thee, they poured out a prayer <em>when</em> thy chastening <em>was</em> upon them. <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Like as a woman with child, <em>that</em> draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain, <em>and</em> crieth out in her pangs; so have we been in thy sight, O LORD. <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy dead <em>men</em> shall live, <em>together with</em> my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew <em>is as</em> the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead. <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For, behold, the LORD cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.

</body>
</html>