<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the year that king Uzziah died I saw also the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Above it stood the seraphims: each one had six wings; with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, <em>is</em> the LORD of hosts: the whole earth <em>is</em> full of his glory. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then said I, Woe <em>is</em> me! for I am undone; because I <em>am</em> a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips: for mine eyes have seen the King, the LORD of hosts. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand, <em>which</em> he had taken with the tongs from off the altar: <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he laid <em>it</em> upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, Here <em>am</em> I; send me. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said, Go, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, but understand not; and see ye indeed, but perceive not. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate, <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the LORD have removed men far away, and <em>there be</em> a great forsaking in the midst of the land. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But yet in it <em>shall be</em> a tenth, and <em>it</em> shall return, and shall be eaten: as a teil tree, and as an oak, whose substance <em>is</em> in them, when they cast <em>their leaves: so</em> the holy seed <em>shall be</em> the substance thereof.

</body>
</html>