<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 65</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 65</h2>

<a id="c65_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am sought of <em>them that</em> asked not <em>for me</em>; I am found of <em>them that</em> sought me not: I said, Behold me, behold me, unto a nation <em>that</em> was not called by my name. <a id="c65_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have spread out my hands all the day unto a rebellious people, which walketh in a way <em>that was</em> not good, after their own thoughts; <a id="c65_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A people that provoketh me to anger continually to my face; that sacrificeth in gardens, and burneth incense upon altars of brick; <a id="c65_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Which remain among the graves, and lodge in the monuments, which eat swine's flesh, and broth of abominable <em>things is in</em> their vessels; <a id="c65_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Which say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me; for I am holier than thou. These <em>are</em> a smoke in my nose, a fire that burneth all the day. <a id="c65_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, <em>it is</em> written before me: I will not keep silence, but will recompense, even recompense into their bosom, <a id="c65_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together, saith the LORD, which have burned incense upon the mountains, and blasphemed me upon the hills: therefore will I measure their former work into their bosom. <a id="c65_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thus saith the LORD, As the new wine is found in the cluster, and <em>one</em> saith, Destroy it not; for a blessing <em>is</em> in it: so will I do for my servants' sakes, that I may not destroy them all. <a id="c65_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains: and mine elect shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there. <a id="c65_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for the herds to lie down in, for my people that have sought me. <a id="c65_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But ye <em>are</em> they that forsake the LORD, that forget my holy mountain, that prepare a table for that troop, and that furnish the drink offering unto that number. <a id="c65_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore will I number you to the sword, and ye shall all bow down to the slaughter: because when I called, ye did not answer; when I spake, ye did not hear; but did evil before mine eyes, and did choose <em>that</em> wherein I delighted not. <a id="c65_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD, Behold, my servants shall eat, but ye shall be hungry: behold, my servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty: behold, my servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be ashamed: <a id="c65_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ye shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall howl for vexation of spirit. <a id="c65_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And ye shall leave your name for a curse unto my chosen: for the Lord GOD shall slay thee, and call his servants by another name: <a id="c65_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> That he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he that sweareth in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because they are hid from mine eyes. <a id="c65_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind. <a id="c65_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But be ye glad and rejoice for ever <em>in that</em> which I create: for, behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy. <a id="c65_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people: and the voice of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice of crying. <a id="c65_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days: for the child shall die an hundred years old; but the sinner <em>being</em> an hundred years old shall be accursed. <a id="c65_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they shall build houses, and inhabit <em>them</em>; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them. <a id="c65_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree <em>are</em> the days of my people, and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands. <a id="c65_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They shall not labour in vain, nor bring forth for trouble; for they <em>are</em> the seed of the blessed of the LORD, and their offspring with them. <a id="c65_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear. <a id="c65_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the bullock: and dust <em>shall be</em> the serpent's meat. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, saith the LORD.

</body>
</html>