<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now will I sing to my wellbeloved a song of my beloved touching his vineyard. My wellbeloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and also made a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, I pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes, brought it forth wild grapes? <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now go to; I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten up; <em>and</em> break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down: <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will lay it waste: it shall not be pruned, nor digged; but there shall come up briers and thorns: I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the vineyard of the LORD of hosts <em>is</em> the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant: and he looked for judgment, but behold oppression; for righteousness, but behold a cry. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Woe unto them that join house to house, <em>that</em> lay field to field, till <em>there be</em> no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of the earth! <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In mine ears <em>said</em> the LORD of hosts, Of a truth many houses shall be desolate, <em>even</em> great and fair, without inhabitant. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed of an homer shall yield an ephah. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, <em>that</em> they may follow strong drink; that continue until night, <em>till</em> wine inflame them! <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the harp, and the viol, the tabret, and pipe, and wine, are in their feasts: but they regard not the work of the LORD, neither consider the operation of his hands. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore my people are gone into captivity, because <em>they have</em> no knowledge: and their honourable men <em>are</em> famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without measure: and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp, and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into it. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled: <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But the LORD of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that is holy shall be sanctified in righteousness. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste places of the fat ones shall strangers eat. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as it were with a cart rope: <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> That say, Let him make speed, <em>and</em> hasten his work, that we may see <em>it</em>: and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come, that we may know <em>it</em>! <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter! <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Woe unto <em>them that are</em> wise in their own eyes, and prudent in their own sight! <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Woe unto <em>them that are</em> mighty to drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink: <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Which justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him! <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore as the fire devoureth the stubble, and the flame consumeth the chaff, <em>so</em> their root shall be as rottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust: because they have cast away the law of the LORD of hosts, and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore is the anger of the LORD kindled against his people, and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten them: and the hills did tremble, and their carcases <em>were</em> torn in the midst of the streets. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand <em>is</em> stretched out still. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and will hiss unto them from the end of the earth: and, behold, they shall come with speed swiftly: <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> None shall be weary nor stumble among them; none shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken: <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Whose arrows <em>are</em> sharp, and all their bows bent, their horses' hoofs shall be counted like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind: <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Their roaring <em>shall be</em> like a lion, they shall roar like young lions: yea, they shall roar, and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry <em>it</em> away safe, and none shall deliver <em>it</em>. <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And in that day they shall roar against them like the roaring of the sea: and if <em>one</em> look unto the land, behold darkness <em>and</em> sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.

</body>
</html>