<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests that <em>were</em> in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin: <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To whom the word of the LORD came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, unto the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah the son of Josiah king of Judah, unto the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in the fifth month. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, <em>and</em> I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! behold, I cannot speak: for I <em>am</em> a child. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the LORD said unto me, Say not, I <em>am</em> a child: for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee thou shalt speak. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be not afraid of their faces: for I <em>am</em> with thee to deliver thee, saith the LORD. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then the LORD put forth his hand, and touched my mouth. And the LORD said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to root out, and to pull down, and to destroy, and to throw down, to build, and to plant. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, Jeremiah, what seest thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almond tree. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then said the LORD unto me, Thou hast well seen: for I will hasten my word to perform it. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the word of the LORD came unto me the second time, saying, What seest thou? And I said, I see a seething pot; and the face thereof <em>is</em> toward the north. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then the LORD said unto me, Out of the north an evil shall break forth upon all the inhabitants of the land. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For, lo, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north, saith the LORD; and they shall come, and they shall set every one his throne at the entering of the gates of Jerusalem, and against all the walls thereof round about, and against all the cities of Judah. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will utter my judgments against them touching all their wickedness, who have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, and worshipped the works of their own hands. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou therefore gird up thy loins, and arise, and speak unto them all that I command thee: be not dismayed at their faces, lest I confound thee before them. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For, behold, I have made thee this day a defenced city, and an iron pillar, and brasen walls against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, against the princes thereof, against the priests thereof, and against the people of the land. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they shall fight against thee; but they shall not prevail against thee; for I <em>am</em> with thee, saith the LORD, to deliver thee.

</body>
</html>