<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people! <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Oh that I had in the wilderness a lodging place of wayfaring men; that I might leave my people, and go from them! for they <em>be</em> all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they bend their tongues <em>like</em> their bow <em>for</em> lies: but they are not valiant for the truth upon the earth; for they proceed from evil to evil, and they know not me, saith the LORD. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Take ye heed every one of his neighbour, and trust ye not in any brother: for every brother will utterly supplant, and every neighbour will walk with slanders. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they will deceive every one his neighbour, and will not speak the truth: they have taught their tongue to speak lies, <em>and</em> weary themselves to commit iniquity. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thine habitation <em>is</em> in the midst of deceit; through deceit they refuse to know me, saith the LORD. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold, I will melt them, and try them; for how shall I do for the daughter of my people? <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their tongue <em>is as</em> an arrow shot out; it speaketh deceit: <em>one</em> speaketh peaceably to his neighbour with his mouth, but in heart he layeth his wait. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Shall I not visit them for these <em>things</em>? saith the LORD: shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this? <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the mountains will I take up a weeping and wailing, and for the habitations of the wilderness a lamentation, because they are burned up, so that none can pass through <em>them</em>; neither can <em>men</em> hear the voice of the cattle; both the fowl of the heavens and the beast are fled; they are gone. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will make Jerusalem heaps, <em>and</em> a den of dragons; and I will make the cities of Judah desolate, without an inhabitant. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who <em>is</em> the wise man, that may understand this? and <em>who is he</em> to whom the mouth of the LORD hath spoken, that he may declare it, for what the land perisheth <em>and</em> is burned up like a wilderness, that none passeth through? <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the LORD saith, Because they have forsaken my law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, neither walked therein; <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But have walked after the imagination of their own heart, and after Baalim, which their fathers taught them: <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will feed them, <em>even</em> this people, with wormwood, and give them water of gall to drink. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will scatter them also among the heathen, whom neither they nor their fathers have known: and I will send a sword after them, till I have consumed them. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Consider ye, and call for the mourning women, that they may come; and send for cunning <em>women</em>, that they may come: <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And let them make haste, and take up a wailing for us, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids gush out with waters. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, How are we spoiled! we are greatly confounded, because we have forsaken the land, because our dwellings have cast <em>us</em> out. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yet hear the word of the LORD, O ye women, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth, and teach your daughters wailing, and every one her neighbour lamentation. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For death is come up into our windows, <em>and</em> is entered into our palaces, to cut off the children from without, <em>and</em> the young men from the streets. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Speak, Thus saith the LORD, Even the carcases of men shall fall as dung upon the open field, and as the handful after the harvestman, and none shall gather <em>them</em>. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thus saith the LORD, Let not the wise <em>man</em> glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty <em>man</em> glory in his might, let not the rich <em>man</em> glory in his riches: <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I <em>am</em> the LORD which exercise lovingkindness, judgment, and righteousness, in the earth: for in these <em>things</em> I delight, saith the LORD. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will punish all <em>them which are</em> circumcised with the uncircumcised; <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Egypt, and Judah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and Moab, and all <em>that are</em> in the utmost corners, that dwell in the wilderness: for all <em>these</em> nations <em>are</em> uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel <em>are</em> uncircumcised in the heart.

</body>
</html>