<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time, saith the LORD, they shall bring out the bones of the kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and the bones of the priests, and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves: <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they shall spread them before the sun, and the moon, and all the host of heaven, whom they have loved, and whom they have served, and after whom they have walked, and whom they have sought, and whom they have worshipped: they shall not be gathered, nor be buried; they shall be for dung upon the face of the earth. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue of them that remain of this evil family, which remain in all the places whither I have driven them, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Moreover thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD; Shall they fall, and not arise? shall he turn away, and not return? <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why <em>then</em> is this people of Jerusalem slidden back by a perpetual backsliding? they hold fast deceit, they refuse to return. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I hearkened and heard, <em>but</em> they spake not aright: no man repented him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? every one turned to his course, as the horse rusheth into the battle. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yea, the stork in the heaven knoweth her appointed times; and the turtle and the crane and the swallow observe the time of their coming; but my people know not the judgment of the LORD. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How do ye say, We <em>are</em> wise, and the law of the LORD <em>is</em> with us? Lo, certainly in vain made he <em>it</em>; the pen of the scribes <em>is</em> in vain. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The wise <em>men</em> are ashamed, they are dismayed and taken: lo, they have rejected the word of the LORD; and what wisdom <em>is</em> in them? <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore will I give their wives unto others, <em>and</em> their fields to them that shall inherit <em>them</em>: for every one from the least even unto the greatest is given to covetousness, from the prophet even unto the priest every one dealeth falsely. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For they have healed the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when <em>there is</em> no peace. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore shall they fall among them that fall: in the time of their visitation they shall be cast down, saith the LORD. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will surely consume them, saith the LORD: <em>there shall be</em> no grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree, and the leaf shall fade; and <em>the things that</em> I have given them shall pass away from them. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Why do we sit still? assemble yourselves, and let us enter into the defenced cities, and let us be silent there: for the LORD our God hath put us to silence, and given us water of gall to drink, because we have sinned against the LORD. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> We looked for peace, but no good <em>came; and</em> for a time of health, and behold trouble! <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The snorting of his horses was heard from Dan: the whole land trembled at the sound of the neighing of his strong ones; for they are come, and have devoured the land, and all that is in it; the city, and those that dwell therein. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For, behold, I will send serpents, cockatrices, among you, which <em>will</em> not <em>be</em> charmed, and they shall bite you, saith the LORD. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> <em>When</em> I would comfort myself against sorrow, my heart <em>is</em> faint in me. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people because of them that dwell in a far country: <em>Is</em> not the LORD in Zion? <em>is</em> not her king in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their graven images, <em>and</em> with strange vanities? <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I hurt; I am black; astonishment hath taken hold on me. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> <em>Is there</em> no balm in Gilead; <em>is there</em> no physician there? why then is not the health of the daughter of my people recovered?

</body>
</html>