<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O ye children of Benjamin, gather yourselves to flee out of the midst of Jerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and set up a sign of fire in Bethhaccerem: for evil appeareth out of the north, and great destruction. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have likened the daughter of Zion to a comely and delicate <em>woman</em>. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The shepherds with their flocks shall come unto her; they shall pitch <em>their</em> tents against her round about; they shall feed every one in his place. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Prepare ye war against her; arise, and let us go up at noon. Woe unto us! for the day goeth away, for the shadows of the evening are stretched out. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Arise, and let us go by night, and let us destroy her palaces. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus hath the LORD of hosts said, Hew ye down trees, and cast a mount against Jerusalem: this <em>is</em> the city to be visited; she <em>is</em> wholly oppression in the midst of her. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As a fountain casteth out her waters, so she casteth out her wickedness: violence and spoil is heard in her; before me continually <em>is</em> grief and wounds. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from thee; lest I make thee desolate, a land not inhabited. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus saith the LORD of hosts, They shall throughly glean the remnant of Israel as a vine: turn back thine hand as a grapegatherer into the baskets. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> To whom shall I speak, and give warning, that they may hear? behold, their ear <em>is</em> uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken: behold, the word of the LORD is unto them a reproach; they have no delight in it. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore I am full of the fury of the LORD; I am weary with holding in: I will pour it out upon the children abroad, and upon the assembly of young men together: for even the husband with the wife shall be taken, the aged with <em>him that is</em> full of days. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their houses shall be turned unto others, <em>with their</em> fields and wives together: for I will stretch out my hand upon the inhabitants of the land, saith the LORD. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For from the least of them even unto the greatest of them every one <em>is</em> given to covetousness; and from the prophet even unto the priest every one dealeth falsely. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They have healed also the hurt <em>of the daughter</em> of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when <em>there is</em> no peace. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore they shall fall among them that fall: at the time <em>that</em> I visit them they shall be cast down, saith the LORD. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus saith the LORD, Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where <em>is</em> the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk <em>therein</em>. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Also I set watchmen over you, <em>saying</em>, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what <em>is</em> among them. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people, <em>even</em> the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words, nor to my law, but rejected it. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> To what purpose cometh there to me incense from Sheba, and the sweet cane from a far country? your burnt offerings <em>are</em> not acceptable, nor your sacrifices sweet unto me. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will lay stumblingblocks before this people, and the fathers and the sons together shall fall upon them; the neighbour and his friend shall perish. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thus saith the LORD, Behold, a people cometh from the north country, and a great nation shall be raised from the sides of the earth. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They shall lay hold on bow and spear; they <em>are</em> cruel, and have no mercy; their voice roareth like the sea; and they ride upon horses, set in array as men for war against thee, O daughter of Zion. <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> We have heard the fame thereof: our hands wax feeble: anguish hath taken hold of us, <em>and</em> pain, as of a woman in travail. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the sword of the enemy <em>and</em> fear <em>is</em> on every side. <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> O daughter of my people, gird <em>thee</em> with sackcloth, and wallow thyself in ashes: make thee mourning, <em>as for</em> an only son, most bitter lamentation: for the spoiler shall suddenly come upon us. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I have set thee <em>for</em> a tower <em>and</em> a fortress among my people, that thou mayest know and try their way. <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They <em>are</em> all grievous revolters, walking with slanders: <em>they are</em> brass and iron; they <em>are</em> all corrupters. <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The bellows are burned, the lead is consumed of the fire; the founder melteth in vain: for the wicked are not plucked away. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Reprobate silver shall <em>men</em> call them, because the LORD hath rejected them.

</body>
</html>