<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover the word of the LORD came to me, saying, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Go and cry in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the LORD; I remember thee, the kindness of thy youth, the love of thine espousals, when thou wentest after me in the wilderness, in a land <em>that was</em> not sown. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Israel <em>was</em> holiness unto the LORD, <em>and</em> the firstfruits of his increase: all that devour him shall offend; evil shall come upon them, saith the LORD. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Hear ye the word of the LORD, O house of Jacob, and all the families of the house of Israel: <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus saith the LORD, What iniquity have your fathers found in me, that they are gone far from me, and have walked after vanity, and are become vain? <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Neither said they, Where <em>is</em> the LORD that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, that led us through the wilderness, through a land of deserts and of pits, through a land of drought, and of the shadow of death, through a land that no man passed through, and where no man dwelt? <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I brought you into a plentiful country, to eat the fruit thereof and the goodness thereof; but when ye entered, ye defiled my land, and made mine heritage an abomination. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The priests said not, Where <em>is</em> the LORD? and they that handle the law knew me not: the pastors also transgressed against me, and the prophets prophesied by Baal, and walked after <em>things that</em> do not profit. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Wherefore I will yet plead with you, saith the LORD, and with your children's children will I plead. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For pass over the isles of Chittim, and see; and send unto Kedar, and consider diligently, and see if there be such a thing. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Hath a nation changed <em>their</em> gods, which <em>are</em> yet no gods? but my people have changed their glory for <em>that which</em> doth not profit. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Be astonished, O ye heavens, at this, and be horribly afraid, be ye very desolate, saith the LORD. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For my people have committed two evils; they have forsaken me the fountain of living waters, <em>and</em> hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> <em>Is</em> Israel a servant? <em>is</em> he a homeborn <em>slave</em>? why is he spoiled? <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The young lions roared upon him, <em>and</em> yelled, and they made his land waste: his cities are burned without inhabitant. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Also the children of Noph and Tahapanes have broken the crown of thy head. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Hast thou not procured this unto thyself, in that thou hast forsaken the LORD thy God, when he led thee by the way? <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And now what hast thou to do in the way of Egypt, to drink the waters of Sihor? or what hast thou to do in the way of Assyria, to drink the waters of the river? <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, and thy backslidings shall reprove thee: know therefore and see that <em>it is</em> an evil <em>thing</em> and bitter, that thou hast forsaken the LORD thy God, and that my fear <em>is</em> not in thee, saith the Lord GOD of hosts. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For of old time I have broken thy yoke, <em>and</em> burst thy bands; and thou saidst, I will not transgress; when upon every high hill and under every green tree thou wanderest, playing the harlot. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yet I had planted thee a noble vine, wholly a right seed: how then art thou turned into the degenerate plant of a strange vine unto me? <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For though thou wash thee with nitre, and take thee much soap, <em>yet</em> thine iniquity is marked before me, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> How canst thou say, I am not polluted, I have not gone after Baalim? see thy way in the valley, know what thou hast done: <em>thou art</em> a swift dromedary traversing her ways; <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A wild ass used to the wilderness, <em>that</em> snuffeth up the wind at her pleasure; in her occasion who can turn her away? all they that seek her will not weary themselves; in her month they shall find her. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Withhold thy foot from being unshod, and thy throat from thirst: but thou saidst, There is no hope: no; for I have loved strangers, and after them will I go. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> As the thief is ashamed when he is found, so is the house of Israel ashamed; they, their kings, their princes, and their priests, and their prophets, <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Saying to a stock, Thou <em>art</em> my father; and to a stone, Thou hast brought me forth: for they have turned <em>their</em> back unto me, and not <em>their</em> face: but in the time of their trouble they will say, Arise, and save us. <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But where <em>are</em> thy gods that thou hast made thee? let them arise, if they can save thee in the time of thy trouble: for <em>according to</em> the number of thy cities are thy gods, O Judah. <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Wherefore will ye plead with me? ye all have transgressed against me, saith the LORD. <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> In vain have I smitten your children; they received no correction: your own sword hath devoured your prophets, like a destroying lion. <a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> O generation, see ye the word of the LORD. Have I been a wilderness unto Israel? a land of darkness? wherefore say my people, We are lords; we will come no more unto thee? <a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Can a maid forget her ornaments, <em>or</em> a bride her attire? yet my people have forgotten me days without number. <a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Why trimmest thou thy way to seek love? therefore hast thou also taught the wicked ones thy ways. <a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Also in thy skirts is found the blood of the souls of the poor innocents: I have not found it by secret search, but upon all these. <a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Yet thou sayest, Because I am innocent, surely his anger shall turn from me. Behold, I will plead with thee, because thou sayest, I have not sinned. <a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Why gaddest thou about so much to change thy way? thou also shalt be ashamed of Egypt, as thou wast ashamed of Assyria. <a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Yea, thou shalt go forth from him, and thine hands upon thine head: for the LORD hath rejected thy confidences, and thou shalt not prosper in them.

</body>
</html>