<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now, and know, and seek in the broad places thereof, if ye can find a man, if there be <em>any</em> that executeth judgment, that seeketh the truth; and I will pardon it. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And though they say, The LORD liveth; surely they swear falsely. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O LORD, <em>are</em> not thine eyes upon the truth? thou hast stricken them, but they have not grieved; thou hast consumed them, <em>but</em> they have refused to receive correction: they have made their faces harder than a rock; they have refused to return. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore I said, Surely these <em>are</em> poor; they are foolish: for they know not the way of the LORD, <em>nor</em> the judgment of their God. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will get me unto the great men, and will speak unto them; for they have known the way of the LORD, <em>and</em> the judgment of their God: but these have altogether broken the yoke, <em>and</em> burst the bonds. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, <em>and</em> a wolf of the evenings shall spoil them, a leopard shall watch over their cities: every one that goeth out thence shall be torn in pieces: because their transgressions are many, <em>and</em> their backslidings are increased. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> How shall I pardon thee for this? thy children have forsaken me, and sworn by <em>them that are</em> no gods: when I had fed them to the full, they then committed adultery, and assembled themselves by troops in the harlots' houses. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They were <em>as</em> fed horses in the morning: every one neighed after his neighbour's wife. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Shall I not visit for these <em>things</em>? saith the LORD: and shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this? <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Go ye up upon her walls, and destroy; but make not a full end: take away her battlements; for they <em>are</em> not the LORD'S. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt very treacherously against me, saith the LORD. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They have belied the LORD, and said, <em>It is</em> not he; neither shall evil come upon us; neither shall we see sword nor famine: <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the prophets shall become wind, and the word <em>is</em> not in them: thus shall it be done unto them. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore thus saith the LORD God of hosts, Because ye speak this word, behold, I will make my words in thy mouth fire, and this people wood, and it shall devour them. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lo, I will bring a nation upon you from far, O house of Israel, saith the LORD: it <em>is</em> a mighty nation, it <em>is</em> an ancient nation, a nation whose language thou knowest not, neither understandest what they say. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Their quiver <em>is</em> as an open sepulchre, they <em>are</em> all mighty men. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they shall eat up thine harvest, and thy bread, <em>which</em> thy sons and thy daughters should eat: they shall eat up thy flocks and thine herds: they shall eat up thy vines and thy fig trees: they shall impoverish thy fenced cities, wherein thou trustedst, with the sword. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Nevertheless in those days, saith the LORD, I will not make a full end with you. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And it shall come to pass, when ye shall say, Wherefore doeth the LORD our God all these <em>things</em> unto us? then shalt thou answer them, Like as ye have forsaken me, and served strange gods in your land, so shall ye serve strangers in a land <em>that is</em> not yours. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Declare this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah, saying, <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Hear now this, O foolish people, and without understanding; which have eyes, and see not; which have ears, and hear not: <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Fear ye not me? saith the LORD: will ye not tremble at my presence, which have placed the sand <em>for</em> the bound of the sea by a perpetual decree, that it cannot pass it: and though the waves thereof toss themselves, yet can they not prevail; though they roar, yet can they not pass over it? <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But this people hath a revolting and a rebellious heart; they are revolted and gone. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Neither say they in their heart, Let us now fear the LORD our God, that giveth rain, both the former and the latter, in his season: he reserveth unto us the appointed weeks of the harvest. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Your iniquities have turned away these <em>things</em>, and your sins have withholden good <em>things</em> from you. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For among my people are found wicked <em>men</em>: they lay wait, as he that setteth snares; they set a trap, they catch men. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> As a cage is full of birds, so <em>are</em> their houses full of deceit: therefore they are become great, and waxen rich. <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They are waxen fat, they shine: yea, they overpass the deeds of the wicked: they judge not the cause, the cause of the fatherless, yet they prosper; and the right of the needy do they not judge. <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Shall I not visit for these <em>things</em>? saith the LORD: shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this? <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> A wonderful and horrible thing is committed in the land; <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests bear rule by their means; and my people love <em>to have it</em> so: and what will ye do in the end thereof?

</body>
</html>