<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And thou, son of man, take thee a sharp knife, take thee a barber's razor, and cause <em>it</em> to pass upon thine head and upon thy beard: then take thee balances to weigh, and divide the <em>hair</em>. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou shalt burn with fire a third part in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled: and thou shalt take a third part, <em>and</em> smite about it with a knife: and a third part thou shalt scatter in the wind; and I will draw out a sword after them. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou shalt also take thereof a few in number, and bind them in thy skirts. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then take of them again, and cast them into the midst of the fire, and burn them in the fire; <em>for</em> thereof shall a fire come forth into all the house of Israel. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; This <em>is</em> Jerusalem: I have set it in the midst of the nations and countries <em>that are</em> round about her. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she hath changed my judgments into wickedness more than the nations, and my statutes more than the countries that <em>are</em> round about her: for they have refused my judgments and my statutes, they have not walked in them. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye multiplied more than the nations that <em>are</em> round about you, <em>and</em> have not walked in my statutes, neither have kept my judgments, neither have done according to the judgments of the nations that <em>are</em> round about you; <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I, even I, <em>am</em> against thee, and will execute judgments in the midst of thee in the sight of the nations. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will do in thee that which I have not done, and whereunto I will not do any more the like, because of all thine abominations. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of thee, and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments in thee, and the whole remnant of thee will I scatter into all the winds. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wherefore, <em>as</em> I live, saith the Lord GOD; Surely, because thou hast defiled my sanctuary with all thy detestable things, and with all thine abominations, therefore will I also diminish <em>thee</em>; neither shall mine eye spare, neither will I have any pity. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and with famine shall they be consumed in the midst of thee: and a third part shall fall by the sword round about thee; and I will scatter a third part into all the winds, and I will draw out a sword after them. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus shall mine anger be accomplished, and I will cause my fury to rest upon them, and I will be comforted: and they shall know that I the LORD have spoken <em>it</em> in my zeal, when I have accomplished my fury in them. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Moreover I will make thee waste, and a reproach among the nations that <em>are</em> round about thee, in the sight of all that pass by. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an astonishment unto the nations that <em>are</em> round about thee, when I shall execute judgments in thee in anger and in fury and in furious rebukes. I the LORD have spoken <em>it</em>. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When I shall send upon them the evil arrows of famine, which shall be for <em>their</em> destruction, <em>and</em> which I will send to destroy you: and I will increase the famine upon you, and will break your staff of bread: <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So will I send upon you famine and evil beasts, and they shall bereave thee; and pestilence and blood shall pass through thee; and I will bring the sword upon thee. I the LORD have spoken <em>it</em>.

</body>
</html>