<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 17</h2>

<a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, put forth a riddle, and speak a parable unto the house of Israel; <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; A great eagle with great wings, longwinged, full of feathers, which had divers colours, came unto Lebanon, and took the highest branch of the cedar: <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He cropped off the top of his young twigs, and carried it into a land of traffick; he set it in a city of merchants. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in a fruitful field; he placed <em>it</em> by great waters, <em>and</em> set it <em>as</em> a willow tree. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature, whose branches turned toward him, and the roots thereof were under him: so it became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot forth sprigs. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There was also another great eagle with great wings and many feathers: and, behold, this vine did bend her roots toward him, and shot forth her branches toward him, that he might water it by the furrows of her plantation. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It was planted in a good soil by great waters, that it might bring forth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it might be a goodly vine. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Shall it prosper? shall he not pull up the roots thereof, and cut off the fruit thereof, that it wither? it shall wither in all the leaves of her spring, even without great power or many people to pluck it up by the roots thereof. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yea, behold, <em>being</em> planted, shall it prosper? shall it not utterly wither, when the east wind toucheth it? it shall wither in the furrows where it grew. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Say now to the rebellious house, Know ye not what these <em>things mean</em>? tell <em>them</em>, Behold, the king of Babylon is come to Jerusalem, and hath taken the king thereof, and the princes thereof, and led them with him to Babylon; <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And hath taken of the king's seed, and made a covenant with him, and hath taken an oath of him: he hath also taken the mighty of the land: <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> That the kingdom might be base, that it might not lift itself up, <em>but</em> that by keeping of his covenant it might stand. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors into Egypt, that they might give him horses and much people. Shall he prosper? shall he escape that doeth such <em>things</em>? or shall he break the covenant, and be delivered? <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> <em>As</em> I live, saith the Lord GOD, surely in the place <em>where</em> the king <em>dwelleth</em> that made him king, whose oath he despised, and whose covenant he brake, <em>even</em> with him in the midst of Babylon he shall die. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Neither shall Pharaoh with <em>his</em> mighty army and great company make for him in the war, by casting up mounts, and building forts, to cut off many persons: <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Seeing he despised the oath by breaking the covenant, when, lo, he had given his hand, and hath done all these <em>things</em>, he shall not escape. <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; <em>As</em> I live, surely mine oath that he hath despised, and my covenant that he hath broken, even it will I recompense upon his own head. <a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon, and will plead with him there for his trespass that he hath trespassed against me. <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And all his fugitives with all his bands shall fall by the sword, and they that remain shall be scattered toward all winds: and ye shall know that I the LORD have spoken <em>it</em>. <a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also take of the highest branch of the high cedar, and will set <em>it</em>; I will crop off from the top of his young twigs a tender one, and will plant <em>it</em> upon an high mountain and eminent: <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In the mountain of the height of Israel will I plant it: and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a goodly cedar: and under it shall dwell all fowl of every wing; in the shadow of the branches thereof shall they dwell. <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And all the trees of the field shall know that I the LORD have brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish: I the LORD have spoken and have done <em>it</em>.

</body>
</html>