<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 42</h2>

<a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then he brought me forth into the utter court, the way toward the north: and he brought me into the chamber that <em>was</em> over against the separate place, and which <em>was</em> before the building toward the north. <a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before the length of an hundred cubits <em>was</em> the north door, and the breadth <em>was</em> fifty cubits. <a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Over against the twenty <em>cubits</em> which <em>were</em> for the inner court, and over against the pavement which <em>was</em> for the utter court, <em>was</em> gallery against gallery in three <em>stories</em>. <a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And before the chambers <em>was</em> a walk of ten cubits breadth inward, a way of one cubit; and their doors toward the north. <a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now the upper chambers <em>were</em> shorter: for the galleries were higher than these, than the lower, and than the middlemost of the building. <a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For they <em>were</em> in three <em>stories</em>, but had not pillars as the pillars of the courts: therefore <em>the building</em> was straitened more than the lowest and the middlemost from the ground. <a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the wall that <em>was</em> without over against the chambers, toward the utter court on the forepart of the chambers, the length thereof <em>was</em> fifty cubits. <a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the length of the chambers that <em>were</em> in the utter court <em>was</em> fifty cubits: and, lo, before the temple <em>were</em> an hundred cubits. <a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And from under these chambers <em>was</em> the entry on the east side, as one goeth into them from the utter court. <a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The chambers <em>were</em> in the thickness of the wall of the court toward the east, over against the separate place, and over against the building. <a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the way before them <em>was</em> like the appearance of the chambers which <em>were</em> toward the north, as long as they, <em>and</em> as broad as they: and all their goings out <em>were</em> both according to their fashions, and according to their doors. <a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And according to the doors of the chambers that <em>were</em> toward the south <em>was</em> a door in the head of the way, <em>even</em> the way directly before the wall toward the east, as one entereth into them. <a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then said he unto me, The north chambers <em>and</em> the south chambers, which <em>are</em> before the separate place, they <em>be</em> holy chambers, where the priests that approach unto the LORD shall eat the most holy things: there shall they lay the most holy things, and the meat offering, and the sin offering, and the trespass offering; for the place <em>is</em> holy. <a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When the priests enter therein, then shall they not go out of the holy <em>place</em> into the utter court, but there they shall lay their garments wherein they minister; for they <em>are</em> holy; and shall put on other garments, and shall approach to <em>those things</em> which <em>are</em> for the people. <a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now when he had made an end of measuring the inner house, he brought me forth toward the gate whose prospect <em>is</em> toward the east, and measured it round about. <a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed round about. <a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He measured the north side, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed round about. <a id="c42_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He measured the south side, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed. <a id="c42_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He turned about to the west side, <em>and</em> measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed. <a id="c42_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He measured it by the four sides: it had a wall round about, five hundred <em>reeds</em> long, and five hundred broad, to make a separation between the sanctuary and the profane place.

</body>
</html>