<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Also, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD unto the land of Israel; An end, the end is come upon the four corners of the land. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now <em>is</em> the end <em>come</em> upon thee, and I will send mine anger upon thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways, and will recompense upon thee all thine abominations. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And mine eye shall not spare thee, neither will I have pity: but I will recompense thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee: and ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; An evil, an only evil, behold, is come. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> An end is come, the end is come: it watcheth for thee; behold, it is come. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The morning is come unto thee, O thou that dwellest in the land: the time is come, the day of trouble <em>is</em> near, and not the sounding again of the mountains. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now will I shortly pour out my fury upon thee, and accomplish mine anger upon thee: and I will judge thee according to thy ways, and will recompense thee for all thine abominations. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I will recompense thee according to thy ways and thine abominations <em>that</em> are in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD that smiteth. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold the day, behold, it is come: the morning is gone forth; the rod hath blossomed, pride hath budded. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness: none of them <em>shall remain</em>, nor of their multitude, nor of any of theirs: neither <em>shall there be</em> wailing for them. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The time is come, the day draweth near: let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn: for wrath <em>is</em> upon all the multitude thereof. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they were yet alive: for the vision <em>is</em> touching the whole multitude thereof, <em>which</em> shall not return; neither shall any strengthen himself in the iniquity of his life. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They have blown the trumpet, even to make all ready; but none goeth to the battle: for my wrath <em>is</em> upon all the multitude thereof. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sword <em>is</em> without, and the pestilence and the famine within: he that <em>is</em> in the field shall die with the sword; and he that <em>is</em> in the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But they that escape of them shall escape, and shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, every one for his iniquity. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak <em>as</em> water. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They shall also gird <em>themselves</em> with sackcloth, and horror shall cover them; and shame <em>shall be</em> upon all faces, and baldness upon all their heads. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be removed: their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the LORD: they shall not satisfy their souls, neither fill their bowels: because it is the stumblingblock of their iniquity. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> As for the beauty of his ornament, he set it in majesty: but they made the images of their abominations <em>and</em> of their detestable things therein: therefore have I set it far from them. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I will give it into the hands of the strangers for a prey, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and they shall pollute it. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> My face will I turn also from them, and they shall pollute my secret <em>place</em>: for the robbers shall enter into it, and defile it. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Make a chain: for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wherefore I will bring the worst of the heathen, and they shall possess their houses: I will also make the pomp of the strong to cease; and their holy places shall be defiled. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Destruction cometh; and they shall seek peace, and <em>there shall be</em> none. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Mischief shall come upon mischief, and rumour shall be upon rumour; then shall they seek a vision of the prophet; but the law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the ancients. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled: I will do unto them after their way, and according to their deserts will I judge them; and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD.

</body>
</html>