<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 29</h2>

<a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the tenth year, in the tenth <em>month</em>, in the twelfth <em>day</em> of the month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against all Egypt: <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I <em>am</em> against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great dragon that lieth in the midst of his rivers, which hath said, My river <em>is</em> mine own, and I have made <em>it</em> for myself. <a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of thy rivers to stick unto thy scales, and I will bring thee up out of the midst of thy rivers, and all the fish of thy rivers shall stick unto thy scales. <a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will leave thee <em>thrown</em> into the wilderness, thee and all the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the open fields; thou shalt not be brought together, nor gathered: I have given thee for meat to the beasts of the field and to the fowls of the heaven. <a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel. <a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou didst break, and rend all their shoulder: and when they leaned upon thee, thou brakest, and madest all their loins to be at a stand. <a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will bring a sword upon thee, and cut off man and beast out of thee. <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste; and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD: because he hath said, The river <em>is</em> mine, and I have made <em>it</em>. <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, therefore I <em>am</em> against thee, and against thy rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt utterly waste <em>and</em> desolate, from the tower of Syene even unto the border of Ethiopia. <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years. <a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will make the land of Egypt desolate in the midst of the countries <em>that are</em> desolate, and her cities among the cities <em>that are</em> laid waste shall be desolate forty years: and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries. <a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet thus saith the Lord GOD; At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the people whither they were scattered: <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will bring again the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return <em>into</em> the land of Pathros, into the land of their habitation; and they shall be there a base kingdom. <a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It shall be the basest of the kingdoms; neither shall it exalt itself any more above the nations: for I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations. <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, which bringeth <em>their</em> iniquity to remembrance, when they shall look after them: but they shall know that I <em>am</em> the Lord GOD. <a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in the first <em>month</em>, in the first <em>day</em> of the month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon caused his army to serve a great service against Tyrus: every head <em>was</em> made bald, and every shoulder <em>was</em> peeled: yet had he no wages, nor his army, for Tyrus, for the service that he had served against it: <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will give the land of Egypt unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he shall take her multitude, and take her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army. <a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have given him the land of Egypt <em>for</em> his labour wherewith he served against it, because they wrought for me, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In that day will I cause the horn of the house of Israel to bud forth, and I will give thee the opening of the mouth in the midst of them; and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD.

</body>
</html>