<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 24</h2>

<a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Again in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth <em>day</em> of the month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, write thee the name of the day, <em>even</em> of this same day: the king of Babylon set himself against Jerusalem this same day. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And utter a parable unto the rebellious house, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Set on a pot, set <em>it</em> on, and also pour water into it: <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Gather the pieces thereof into it, <em>even</em> every good piece, the thigh, and the shoulder; fill <em>it</em> with the choice bones. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Take the choice of the flock, and burn also the bones under it, <em>and</em> make it boil well, and let them seethe the bones of it therein. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose scum <em>is</em> therein, and whose scum is not gone out of it! bring it out piece by piece; let no lot fall upon it. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it upon the top of a rock; she poured it not upon the ground, to cover it with dust; <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> That it might cause fury to come up to take vengeance; I have set her blood upon the top of a rock, that it should not be covered. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the bloody city! I will even make the pile for fire great. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Heap on wood, kindle the fire, consume the flesh, and spice it well, and let the bones be burned. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then set it empty upon the coals thereof, that the brass of it may be hot, and may burn, and <em>that</em> the filthiness of it may be molten in it, <em>that</em> the scum of it may be consumed. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> She hath wearied <em>herself</em> with lies, and her great scum went not forth out of her: her scum <em>shall be</em> in the fire. <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In thy filthiness <em>is</em> lewdness: because I have purged thee, and thou wast not purged, thou shalt not be purged from thy filthiness any more, till I have caused my fury to rest upon thee. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I the LORD have spoken <em>it</em>: it shall come to pass, and I will do <em>it</em>; I will not go back, neither will I spare, neither will I repent; according to thy ways, and according to thy doings, shall they judge thee, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Also the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Son of man, behold, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes with a stroke: yet neither shalt thou mourn nor weep, neither shall thy tears run down. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Forbear to cry, make no mourning for the dead, bind the tire of thine head upon thee, and put on thy shoes upon thy feet, and cover not <em>thy</em> lips, and eat not the bread of men. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So I spake unto the people in the morning: and at even my wife died; and I did in the morning as I was commanded. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the people said unto me, Wilt thou not tell us what these <em>things are</em> to us, that thou doest <em>so</em>? <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then I answered them, The word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Speak unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the excellency of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pitieth; and your sons and your daughters whom ye have left shall fall by the sword. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And ye shall do as I have done: ye shall not cover <em>your</em> lips, nor eat the bread of men. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And your tires <em>shall be</em> upon your heads, and your shoes upon your feet: ye shall not mourn nor weep; but ye shall pine away for your iniquities, and mourn one toward another. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thus Ezekiel is unto you a sign: according to all that he hath done shall ye do: and when this cometh, ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the Lord GOD. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Also, thou son of man, <em>shall it</em> not <em>be</em> in the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that whereupon they set their minds, their sons and their daughters, <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> <em>That</em> he that escapeth in that day shall come unto thee, to cause <em>thee</em> to hear <em>it</em> with <em>thine</em> ears? <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> In that day shall thy mouth be opened to him which is escaped, and thou shalt speak, and be no more dumb: and thou shalt be a sign unto them; and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD.

</body>
</html>