<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 22</h2>

<a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now, thou son of man, wilt thou judge, wilt thou judge the bloody city? yea, thou shalt shew her all her abominations. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD, The city sheddeth blood in the midst of it, that her time may come, and maketh idols against herself to defile herself. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou art become guilty in thy blood that thou hast shed; and hast defiled thyself in thine idols which thou hast made; and thou hast caused thy days to draw near, and art come <em>even</em> unto thy years: therefore have I made thee a reproach unto the heathen, and a mocking to all countries. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>Those that be</em> near, and <em>those that be</em> far from thee, shall mock thee, <em>which art</em> infamous <em>and</em> much vexed. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, the princes of Israel, every one were in thee to their power to shed blood. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In thee have they set light by father and mother: in the midst of thee have they dealt by oppression with the stranger: in thee have they vexed the fatherless and the widow. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast despised mine holy things, and hast profaned my sabbaths. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In thee are men that carry tales to shed blood: and in thee they eat upon the mountains: in the midst of thee they commit lewdness. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In thee have they discovered their fathers' nakedness: in thee have they humbled her that was set apart for pollution. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And one hath committed abomination with his neighbour's wife; and another hath lewdly defiled his daughter in law; and another in thee hath humbled his sister, his father's daughter. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In thee have they taken gifts to shed blood; thou hast taken usury and increase, and thou hast greedily gained of thy neighbours by extortion, and hast forgotten me, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, therefore I have smitten mine hand at thy dishonest gain which thou hast made, and at thy blood which hath been in the midst of thee. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Can thine heart endure, or can thine hands be strong, in the days that I shall deal with thee? I the LORD have spoken <em>it</em>, and will do <em>it</em>. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will scatter thee among the heathen, and disperse thee in the countries, and will consume thy filthiness out of thee. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thou shalt take thine inheritance in thyself in the sight of the heathen, and thou shalt know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Son of man, the house of Israel is to me become dross: all they <em>are</em> brass, and tin, and iron, and lead, in the midst of the furnace; they are <em>even</em> the dross of silver. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye are all become dross, behold, therefore I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> <em>As</em> they gather silver, and brass, and iron, and lead, and tin, into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to melt <em>it</em>; so will I gather <em>you</em> in mine anger and in my fury, and I will leave <em>you there</em>, and melt you. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yea, I will gather you, and blow upon you in the fire of my wrath, and ye shall be melted in the midst thereof. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall ye be melted in the midst thereof; and ye shall know that I the LORD have poured out my fury upon you. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Son of man, say unto her, Thou <em>art</em> the land that is not cleansed, nor rained upon in the day of indignation. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> <em>There is</em> a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the prey; they have devoured souls; they have taken the treasure and precious things; they have made her many widows in the midst thereof. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Her priests have violated my law, and have profaned mine holy things: they have put no difference between the holy and profane, neither have they shewed <em>difference</em> between the unclean and the clean, and have hid their eyes from my sabbaths, and I am profaned among them. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Her princes in the midst thereof <em>are</em> like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood, <em>and</em> to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And her prophets have daubed them with untempered <em>morter</em>, seeing vanity, and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord GOD, when the LORD hath not spoken. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The people of the land have used oppression, and exercised robbery, and have vexed the poor and needy: yea, they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And I sought for a man among them, that should make up the hedge, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it: but I found none. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore have I poured out mine indignation upon them; I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath: their own way have I recompensed upon their heads, saith the Lord GOD.

</body>
</html>