<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 21</h2>

<a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, set thy face toward Jerusalem, and drop <em>thy word</em> toward the holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel, <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And say to the land of Israel, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I <em>am</em> against thee, and will draw forth my sword out of his sheath, and will cut off from thee the righteous and the wicked. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Seeing then that I will cut off from thee the righteous and the wicked, therefore shall my sword go forth out of his sheath against all flesh from the south to the north: <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That all flesh may know that I the LORD have drawn forth my sword out of his sheath: it shall not return any more. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sigh therefore, thou son of man, with the breaking of <em>thy</em> loins; and with bitterness sigh before their eyes. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it shall be, when they say unto thee, Wherefore sighest thou? that thou shalt answer, For the tidings; because it cometh: and every heart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and every spirit shall faint, and all knees shall be weak <em>as</em> water: behold, it cometh, and shall be brought to pass, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus saith the LORD; Say, A sword, a sword is sharpened, and also furbished: <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> It is sharpened to make a sore slaughter; it is furbished that it may glitter: should we then make mirth? it contemneth the rod of my son, <em>as</em> every tree. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he hath given it to be furbished, that it may be handled: this sword is sharpened, and it is furbished, to give it into the hand of the slayer. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Cry and howl, son of man: for it shall be upon my people, it <em>shall be</em> upon all the princes of Israel: terrors by reason of the sword shall be upon my people: smite therefore upon <em>thy</em> thigh. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Because <em>it is</em> a trial, and what if <em>the sword</em> contemn even the rod? it shall be no <em>more</em>, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou therefore, son of man, prophesy, and smite <em>thine</em> hands together, and let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword of the slain: it <em>is</em> the sword of the great <em>men that are</em> slain, which entereth into their privy chambers. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have set the point of the sword against all their gates, that <em>their</em> heart may faint, and <em>their</em> ruins be multiplied: ah! <em>it is</em> made bright, <em>it is</em> wrapped up for the slaughter. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Go thee one way or other, <em>either</em> on the right hand, <em>or</em> on the left, whithersoever thy face <em>is</em> set. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will also smite mine hands together, and I will cause my fury to rest: I the LORD have said <em>it</em>. <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying, <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also, thou son of man, appoint thee two ways, that the sword of the king of Babylon may come: both twain shall come forth out of one land: and choose thou a place, choose <em>it</em> at the head of the way to the city. <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Appoint a way, that the sword may come to Rabbath of the Ammonites, and to Judah in Jerusalem the defenced. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the king of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination: he made <em>his</em> arrows bright, he consulted with images, he looked in the liver. <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to appoint captains, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voice with shouting, to appoint <em>battering</em> rams against the gates, to cast a mount, <em>and</em> to build a fort. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And it shall be unto them as a false divination in their sight, to them that have sworn oaths: but he will call to remembrance the iniquity, that they may be taken. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are discovered, so that in all your doings your sins do appear; because, <em>I say</em>, that ye are come to remembrance, ye shall be taken with the hand. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And thou, profane wicked prince of Israel, whose day is come, when iniquity <em>shall have</em> an end, <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; Remove the diadem, and take off the crown: this <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em> the same: exalt <em>him that is</em> low, and abase <em>him that is</em> high. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I will overturn, overturn, overturn, it: and it shall be no <em>more</em>, until he come whose right it is; and I will give it <em>him</em>. <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And thou, son of man, prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD concerning the Ammonites, and concerning their reproach; even say thou, The sword, the sword <em>is</em> drawn: for the slaughter <em>it is</em> furbished, to consume because of the glittering: <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Whiles they see vanity unto thee, whiles they divine a lie unto thee, to bring thee upon the necks of <em>them that are</em> slain, of the wicked, whose day is come, when their iniquity <em>shall have</em> an end. <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Shall I cause <em>it</em> to return into his sheath? I will judge thee in the place where thou wast created, in the land of thy nativity. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And I will pour out mine indignation upon thee, I will blow against thee in the fire of my wrath, and deliver thee into the hand of brutish men, <em>and</em> skilful to destroy. <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Thou shalt be for fuel to the fire; thy blood shall be in the midst of the land; thou shalt be no <em>more</em> remembered: for I the LORD have spoken <em>it</em>.

</body>
</html>