<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 27</h2>

<a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now, thou son of man, take up a lamentation for Tyrus; <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And say unto Tyrus, O thou that art situate at the entry of the sea, <em>which art</em> a merchant of the people for many isles, Thus saith the Lord GOD; O Tyrus, thou hast said, I <em>am</em> of perfect beauty. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy borders <em>are</em> in the midst of the seas, thy builders have perfected thy beauty. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have made all thy <em>ship</em> boards of fir trees of Senir: they have taken cedars from Lebanon to make masts for thee. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> <em>Of</em> the oaks of Bashan have they made thine oars; the company of the Ashurites have made thy benches <em>of</em> ivory, <em>brought</em> out of the isles of Chittim. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was that which thou spreadest forth to be thy sail; blue and purple from the isles of Elishah was that which covered thee. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad were thy mariners: thy wise <em>men</em>, O Tyrus, <em>that</em> were in thee, were thy pilots. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The ancients of Gebal and the wise <em>men</em> thereof were in thee thy calkers: all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in thee to occupy thy merchandise. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They of Persia and of Lud and of Phut were in thine army, thy men of war: they hanged the shield and helmet in thee; they set forth thy comeliness. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The men of Arvad with thine army <em>were</em> upon thy walls round about, and the Gammadims were in thy towers: they hanged their shields upon thy walls round about; they have made thy beauty perfect. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Tarshish <em>was</em> thy merchant by reason of the multitude of all <em>kind of</em> riches; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they traded in thy fairs. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they <em>were</em> thy merchants: they traded the persons of men and vessels of brass in thy market. <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They of the house of Togarmah traded in thy fairs with horses and horsemen and mules. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The men of Dedan <em>were</em> thy merchants; many isles <em>were</em> the merchandise of thine hand: they brought thee <em>for</em> a present horns of ivory and ebony. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Syria <em>was</em> thy merchant by reason of the multitude of the wares of thy making: they occupied in thy fairs with emeralds, purple, and broidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and agate. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Judah, and the land of Israel, they <em>were</em> thy merchants: they traded in thy market wheat of Minnith, and Pannag, and honey, and oil, and balm. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Damascus <em>was</em> thy merchant in the multitude of the wares of thy making, for the multitude of all riches; in the wine of Helbon, and white wool. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Dan also and Javan going to and fro occupied in thy fairs: bright iron, cassia, and calamus, were in thy market. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Dedan <em>was</em> thy merchant in precious clothes for chariots. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar, they occupied with thee in lambs, and rams, and goats: in these <em>were they</em> thy merchants. <a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The merchants of Sheba and Raamah, they <em>were</em> thy merchants: they occupied in thy fairs with chief of all spices, and with all precious stones, and gold. <a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Haran, and Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheba, Asshur, <em>and</em> Chilmad, <em>were</em> thy merchants. <a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> These <em>were</em> thy merchants in all sorts <em>of things</em>, in blue clothes, and broidered work, and in chests of rich apparel, bound with cords, and made of cedar, among thy merchandise. <a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The ships of Tarshish did sing of thee in thy market: and thou wast replenished, and made very glorious in the midst of the seas. <a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Thy rowers have brought thee into great waters: the east wind hath broken thee in the midst of the seas. <a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thy riches, and thy fairs, thy merchandise, thy mariners, and thy pilots, thy calkers, and the occupiers of thy merchandise, and all thy men of war, that <em>are</em> in thee, and in all thy company which <em>is</em> in the midst of thee, shall fall into the midst of the seas in the day of thy ruin. <a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The suburbs shall shake at the sound of the cry of thy pilots. <a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And all that handle the oar, the mariners, <em>and</em> all the pilots of the sea, shall come down from their ships, they shall stand upon the land; <a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And shall cause their voice to be heard against thee, and shall cry bitterly, and shall cast up dust upon their heads, they shall wallow themselves in the ashes: <a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they shall make themselves utterly bald for thee, and gird them with sackcloth, and they shall weep for thee with bitterness of heart <em>and</em> bitter wailing. <a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And in their wailing they shall take up a lamentation for thee, and lament over thee, <em>saying</em>, What <em>city is</em> like Tyrus, like the destroyed in the midst of the sea? <a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When thy wares went forth out of the seas, thou filledst many people; thou didst enrich the kings of the earth with the multitude of thy riches and of thy merchandise. <a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> In the time <em>when</em> thou shalt be broken by the seas in the depths of the waters thy merchandise and all thy company in the midst of thee shall fall. <a id="c27_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> All the inhabitants of the isles shall be astonished at thee, and their kings shall be sore afraid, they shall be troubled in <em>their</em> countenance. <a id="c27_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The merchants among the people shall hiss at thee; thou shalt be a terror, and never <em>shalt be</em> any more.

</body>
</html>