<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 11</h2>

<a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover the spirit lifted me up, and brought me unto the east gate of the LORD'S house, which looketh eastward: and behold at the door of the gate five and twenty men; among whom I saw Jaazaniah the son of Azur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then said he unto me, Son of man, these <em>are</em> the men that devise mischief, and give wicked counsel in this city: <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Which say, <em>It is</em> not near; let us build houses: this <em>city is</em> the caldron, and we <em>be</em> the flesh. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and said unto me, Speak; Thus saith the LORD; Thus have ye said, O house of Israel: for I know the things that come into your mind, <em>every one of</em> them. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye have filled the streets thereof with the slain. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Your slain whom ye have laid in the midst of it, they <em>are</em> the flesh, and this <em>city is</em> the caldron: but I will bring you forth out of the midst of it. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ye have feared the sword; and I will bring a sword upon you, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will bring you out of the midst thereof, and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border of Israel; and ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This <em>city</em> shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be the flesh in the midst thereof; <em>but</em> I will judge you in the border of Israel: <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD: for ye have not walked in my statutes, neither executed my judgments, but have done after the manners of the heathen that <em>are</em> round about you. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then fell I down upon my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thou make a full end of the remnant of Israel? <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Son of man, thy brethren, <em>even</em> thy brethren, the men of thy kindred, and all the house of Israel wholly, <em>are</em> they unto whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far from the LORD: unto us is this land given in possession. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Although I have cast them far off among the heathen, and although I have scattered them among the countries, yet will I be to them as a little sanctuary in the countries where they shall come. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even gather you from the people, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they shall come thither, and they shall take away all the detestable things thereof and all the abominations thereof from thence. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them an heart of flesh: <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> That they may walk in my statutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But <em>as for them</em> whose heart walketh after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will recompense their way upon their own heads, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then did the cherubims lift up their wings, and the wheels beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel <em>was</em> over them above. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city, and stood upon the mountain which <em>is</em> on the east side of the city. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Afterwards the spirit took me up, and brought me in a vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from me. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then I spake unto them of the captivity all the things that the LORD had shewed me.

</body>
</html>