<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thou also, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it before thee, and pourtray upon it the city, <em>even</em> Jerusalem: <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And lay siege against it, and build a fort against it, and cast a mount against it; set the camp also against it, and set <em>battering</em> rams against it round about. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Moreover take thou unto thee an iron pan, and set it <em>for</em> a wall of iron between thee and the city: and set thy face against it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against it. This <em>shall be</em> a sign to the house of Israel. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lie thou also upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel upon it: <em>according</em> to the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon it thou shalt bear their iniquity. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I have laid upon thee the years of their iniquity, according to the number of the days, three hundred and ninety days: so shalt thou bear the iniquity of the house of Israel. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when thou hast accomplished them, lie again on thy right side, and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days: I have appointed thee each day for a year. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore thou shalt set thy face toward the siege of Jerusalem, and thine arm <em>shall be</em> uncovered, and thou shalt prophesy against it. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And, behold, I will lay bands upon thee, and thou shalt not turn thee from one side to another, till thou hast ended the days of thy siege. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Take thou also unto thee wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentiles, and millet, and fitches, and put them in one vessel, and make thee bread thereof, <em>according</em> to the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon thy side, three hundred and ninety days shalt thou eat thereof. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And thy meat which thou shalt eat <em>shall be</em> by weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time shalt thou eat it. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou shalt drink also water by measure, the sixth part of an hin: from time to time shalt thou drink. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou shalt eat it <em>as</em> barley cakes, and thou shalt bake it with dung that cometh out of man, in their sight. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the LORD said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat their defiled bread among the Gentiles, whither I will drive them. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then said I, Ah Lord GOD! behold, my soul hath not been polluted: for from my youth up even till now have I not eaten of that which dieth of itself, or is torn in pieces; neither came there abominable flesh into my mouth. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then he said unto me, Lo, I have given thee cow's dung for man's dung, and thou shalt prepare thy bread therewith. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and with care; and they shall drink water by measure, and with astonishment: <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> That they may want bread and water, and be astonied one with another, and consume away for their iniquity.

</body>
</html>