<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 10</h2>

<a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then I looked, and, behold, in the firmament that was above the head of the cherubims there appeared over them as it were a sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he spake unto the man clothed with linen, and said, Go in between the wheels, <em>even</em> under the cherub, and fill thine hand with coals of fire from between the cherubims, and scatter <em>them</em> over the city. And he went in in my sight. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now the cherubims stood on the right side of the house, when the man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the glory of the LORD went up from the cherub, <em>and stood</em> over the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the LORD'S glory. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the sound of the cherubims' wings was heard <em>even</em> to the outer court, as the voice of the Almighty God when he speaketh. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it came to pass, <em>that</em> when he had commanded the man clothed with linen, saying, Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubims; then he went in, and stood beside the wheels. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And <em>one</em> cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubims unto the fire that <em>was</em> between the cherubims, and took <em>thereof</em>, and put <em>it</em> into the hands of <em>him that was</em> clothed with linen: who took <em>it</em>, and went out. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there appeared in the cherubims the form of a man's hand under their wings. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when I looked, behold the four wheels by the cherubims, one wheel by one cherub, and another wheel by another cherub: and the appearance of the wheels <em>was</em> as the colour of a beryl stone. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And <em>as for</em> their appearances, they four had one likeness, as if a wheel had been in the midst of a wheel. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When they went, they went upon their four sides; they turned not as they went, but to the place whither the head looked they followed it; they turned not as they went. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their whole body, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels, <em>were</em> full of eyes round about, <em>even</em> the wheels that they four had. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As for the wheels, it was cried unto them in my hearing, O wheel. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And every one had four faces: the first face <em>was</em> the face of a cherub, and the second face <em>was</em> the face of a man, and the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the cherubims were lifted up. This <em>is</em> the living creature that I saw by the river of Chebar. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when the cherubims went, the wheels went by them: and when the cherubims lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the same wheels also turned not from beside them. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When they stood, <em>these</em> stood; and when they were lifted up, <em>these</em> lifted up themselves <em>also</em>: for the spirit of the living creature <em>was</em> in them. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then the glory of the LORD departed from off the threshold of the house, and stood over the cherubims. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the cherubims lifted up their wings, and mounted up from the earth in my sight: when they went out, the wheels also <em>were</em> beside them, and <em>every one</em> stood at the door of the east gate of the LORD'S house; and the glory of the God of Israel <em>was</em> over them above. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This <em>is</em> the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river of Chebar; and I knew that they <em>were</em> the cherubims. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Every one had four faces apiece, and every one four wings; and the likeness of the hands of a man <em>was</em> under their wings. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the likeness of their faces <em>was</em> the same faces which I saw by the river of Chebar, their appearances and themselves: they went every one straight forward.

</body>
</html>