<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 40</h2>

<a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the five and twentieth year of our captivity, in the beginning of the year, in the tenth <em>day</em> of the month, in the fourteenth year after that the city was smitten, in the selfsame day the hand of the LORD was upon me, and brought me thither. <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the visions of God brought he me into the land of Israel, and set me upon a very high mountain, by which <em>was</em> as the frame of a city on the south. <a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he brought me thither, and, behold, <em>there was</em> a man, whose appearance <em>was</em> like the appearance of brass, with a line of flax in his hand, and a measuring reed; and he stood in the gate. <a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the man said unto me, Son of man, behold with thine eyes, and hear with thine ears, and set thine heart upon all that I shall shew thee; for to the intent that I might shew <em>them</em> unto thee <em>art</em> thou brought hither: declare all that thou seest to the house of Israel. <a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And behold a wall on the outside of the house round about, and in the man's hand a measuring reed of six cubits <em>long</em> by the cubit and an hand breadth: so he measured the breadth of the building, one reed; and the height, one reed. <a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then came he unto the gate which looketh toward the east, and went up the stairs thereof, and measured the threshold of the gate, <em>which was</em> one reed broad; and the other threshold <em>of the gate, which was</em> one reed broad. <a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And <em>every</em> little chamber <em>was</em> one reed long, and one reed broad; and between the little chambers <em>were</em> five cubits; and the threshold of the gate by the porch of the gate within <em>was</em> one reed. <a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He measured also the porch of the gate within, one reed. <a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then measured he the porch of the gate, eight cubits; and the posts thereof, two cubits; and the porch of the gate <em>was</em> inward. <a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the little chambers of the gate eastward <em>were</em> three on this side, and three on that side; they three <em>were</em> of one measure: and the posts had one measure on this side and on that side. <a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he measured the breadth of the entry of the gate, ten cubits; <em>and</em> the length of the gate, thirteen cubits. <a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The space also before the little chambers <em>was</em> one cubit <em>on this side</em>, and the space <em>was</em> one cubit on that side: and the little chambers <em>were</em> six cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side. <a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He measured then the gate from the roof of <em>one</em> little chamber to the roof of another: the breadth <em>was</em> five and twenty cubits, door against door. <a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He made also posts of threescore cubits, even unto the post of the court round about the gate. <a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And from the face of the gate of the entrance unto the face of the porch of the inner gate <em>were</em> fifty cubits. <a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And <em>there were</em> narrow windows to the little chambers, and to their posts within the gate round about, and likewise to the arches: and windows <em>were</em> round about inward: and upon <em>each</em> post <em>were</em> palm trees. <a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then brought he me into the outward court, and, lo, <em>there were</em> chambers, and a pavement made for the court round about: thirty chambers <em>were</em> upon the pavement. <a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the pavement by the side of the gates over against the length of the gates <em>was</em> the lower pavement. <a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then he measured the breadth from the forefront of the lower gate unto the forefront of the inner court without, an hundred cubits eastward and northward. <a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the gate of the outward court that looked toward the north, he measured the length thereof, and the breadth thereof. <a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the little chambers thereof <em>were</em> three on this side and three on that side; and the posts thereof and the arches thereof were after the measure of the first gate: the length thereof <em>was</em> fifty cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits. <a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And their windows, and their arches, and their palm trees, <em>were</em> after the measure of the gate that looketh toward the east; and they went up unto it by seven steps; and the arches thereof <em>were</em> before them. <a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the gate of the inner court <em>was</em> over against the gate toward the north, and toward the east; and he measured from gate to gate an hundred cubits. <a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> After that he brought me toward the south, and behold a gate toward the south: and he measured the posts thereof and the arches thereof according to these measures. <a id="c40_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And <em>there were</em> windows in it and in the arches thereof round about, like those windows: the length <em>was</em> fifty cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits. <a id="c40_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And <em>there were</em> seven steps to go up to it, and the arches thereof <em>were</em> before them: and it had palm trees, one on this side, and another on that side, upon the posts thereof. <a id="c40_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And <em>there was</em> a gate in the inner court toward the south: and he measured from gate to gate toward the south an hundred cubits. <a id="c40_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he brought me to the inner court by the south gate: and he measured the south gate according to these measures; <a id="c40_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the little chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the arches thereof, according to these measures: and <em>there were</em> windows in it and in the arches thereof round about: <em>it was</em> fifty cubits long, and five and twenty cubits broad. <a id="c40_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the arches round about <em>were</em> five and twenty cubits long, and five cubits broad. <a id="c40_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the arches thereof <em>were</em> toward the utter court; and palm trees <em>were</em> upon the posts thereof: and the going up to it <em>had</em> eight steps. <a id="c40_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he brought me into the inner court toward the east: and he measured the gate according to these measures. <a id="c40_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the little chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the arches thereof, <em>were</em> according to these measures: and <em>there were</em> windows therein and in the arches thereof round about: <em>it was</em> fifty cubits long, and five and twenty cubits broad. <a id="c40_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the arches thereof <em>were</em> toward the outward court; and palm trees <em>were</em> upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and the going up to it <em>had</em> eight steps. <a id="c40_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he brought me to the north gate, and measured <em>it</em> according to these measures; <a id="c40_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The little chambers thereof, the posts thereof, and the arches thereof, and the windows to it round about: the length <em>was</em> fifty cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits. <a id="c40_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the posts thereof <em>were</em> toward the utter court; and palm trees <em>were</em> upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and the going up to it <em>had</em> eight steps. <a id="c40_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the chambers and the entries thereof <em>were</em> by the posts of the gates, where they washed the burnt offering. <a id="c40_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And in the porch of the gate <em>were</em> two tables on this side, and two tables on that side, to slay thereon the burnt offering and the sin offering and the trespass offering. <a id="c40_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And at the side without, as one goeth up to the entry of the north gate, <em>were</em> two tables; and on the other side, which <em>was</em> at the porch of the gate, <em>were</em> two tables. <a id="c40_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Four tables <em>were</em> on this side, and four tables on that side, by the side of the gate; eight tables, whereupon they slew <em>their sacrifices</em>. <a id="c40_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And the four tables <em>were</em> of hewn stone for the burnt offering, of a cubit and an half long, and a cubit and an half broad, and one cubit high: whereupon also they laid the instruments wherewith they slew the burnt offering and the sacrifice. <a id="c40_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And within <em>were</em> hooks, an hand broad, fastened round about: and upon the tables <em>was</em> the flesh of the offering. <a id="c40_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And without the inner gate <em>were</em> the chambers of the singers in the inner court, which <em>was</em> at the side of the north gate; and their prospect <em>was</em> toward the south: one at the side of the east gate <em>having</em> the prospect toward the north. <a id="c40_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And he said unto me, This chamber, whose prospect <em>is</em> toward the south, <em>is</em> for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the house. <a id="c40_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And the chamber whose prospect <em>is</em> toward the north <em>is</em> for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the altar: these <em>are</em> the sons of Zadok among the sons of Levi, which come near to the LORD to minister unto him. <a id="c40_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> So he measured the court, an hundred cubits long, and an hundred cubits broad, foursquare; and the altar <em>that was</em> before the house. <a id="c40_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he brought me to the porch of the house, and measured <em>each</em> post of the porch, five cubits on this side, and five cubits on that side: and the breadth of the gate <em>was</em> three cubits on this side, and three cubits on that side. <a id="c40_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> The length of the porch <em>was</em> twenty cubits, and the breadth eleven cubits; and <em>he brought me</em> by the steps whereby they went up to it: and <em>there were</em> pillars by the posts, one on this side, and another on that side.

</body>
</html>