<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 25</h2>

<a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, set thy face against the Ammonites, and prophesy against them; <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And say unto the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord GOD; Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou saidst, Aha, against my sanctuary, when it was profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was desolate; and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity; <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, therefore I will deliver thee to the men of the east for a possession, and they shall set their palaces in thee, and make their dwellings in thee: they shall eat thy fruit, and they shall drink thy milk. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will make Rabbah a stable for camels, and the Ammonites a couchingplace for flocks: and ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast clapped <em>thine</em> hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced in heart with all thy despite against the land of Israel; <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, therefore I will stretch out mine hand upon thee, and will deliver thee for a spoil to the heathen; and I will cut thee off from the people, and I will cause thee to perish out of the countries: I will destroy thee; and thou shalt know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because that Moab and Seir do say, Behold, the house of Judah <em>is</em> like unto all the heathen; <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities <em>which are</em> on his frontiers, the glory of the country, Bethjeshimoth, Baalmeon, and Kiriathaim, <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Unto the men of the east with the Ammonites, and will give them in possession, that the Ammonites may not be remembered among the nations. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will execute judgments upon Moab; and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because that Edom hath dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and hath greatly offended, and revenged himself upon them; <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also stretch out mine hand upon Edom, and will cut off man and beast from it; and I will make it desolate from Teman; and they of Dedan shall fall by the sword. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel: and they shall do in Edom according to mine anger and according to my fury; and they shall know my vengeance, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because the Philistines have dealt by revenge, and have taken vengeance with a despiteful heart, to destroy <em>it</em> for the old hatred; <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will stretch out mine hand upon the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethims, and destroy the remnant of the sea coast. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will execute great vengeance upon them with furious rebukes; and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD, when I shall lay my vengeance upon them.

</body>
</html>