<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 30</h2>

<a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Howl ye, Woe worth the day! <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the day <em>is</em> near, even the day of the LORD <em>is</em> near, a cloudy day; it shall be the time of the heathen. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the sword shall come upon Egypt, and great pain shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt, and they shall take away her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ethiopia, and Libya, and Lydia, and all the mingled people, and Chub, and the men of the land that is in league, shall fall with them by the sword. <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus saith the LORD; They also that uphold Egypt shall fall; and the pride of her power shall come down: from the tower of Syene shall they fall in it by the sword, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they shall be desolate in the midst of the countries <em>that are</em> desolate, and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities <em>that are</em> wasted. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD, when I have set a fire in Egypt, and <em>when</em> all her helpers shall be destroyed. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In that day shall messengers go forth from me in ships to make the careless Ethiopians afraid, and great pain shall come upon them, as in the day of Egypt: for, lo, it cometh. <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shall be brought to destroy the land: and they shall draw their swords against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain. <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will make the rivers dry, and sell the land into the hand of the wicked: and I will make the land waste, and all that is therein, by the hand of strangers: I the LORD have spoken <em>it</em>. <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also destroy the idols, and I will cause <em>their</em> images to cease out of Noph; and there shall be no more a prince of the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt. <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set fire in Zoan, and will execute judgments in No. <a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will pour my fury upon Sin, the strength of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude of No. <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will set fire in Egypt: Sin shall have great pain, and No shall be rent asunder, and Noph <em>shall have</em> distresses daily. <a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword: and these <em>cities</em> shall go into captivity. <a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> At Tehaphnehes also the day shall be darkened, when I shall break there the yokes of Egypt: and the pomp of her strength shall cease in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall go into captivity. <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thus will I execute judgments in Egypt: and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first <em>month</em>, in the seventh <em>day</em> of the month, <em>that</em> the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and, lo, it shall not be bound up to be healed, to put a roller to bind it, to make it strong to hold the sword. <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I <em>am</em> against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand. <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries. <a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand: but I will break Pharaoh's arms, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded <em>man</em>. <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt. <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them among the countries; and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD.

</body>
</html>