<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 35</h2>

<a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, set thy face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it, <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And say unto it, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, O mount Seir, I <em>am</em> against thee, and I will stretch out mine hand against thee, and I will make thee most desolate. <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will lay thy cities waste, and thou shalt be desolate, and thou shalt know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because thou hast had a perpetual hatred, and hast shed <em>the blood of</em> the children of Israel by the force of the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time <em>that their</em> iniquity <em>had</em> an end: <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, <em>as</em> I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will prepare thee unto blood, and blood shall pursue thee: sith thou hast not hated blood, even blood shall pursue thee. <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus will I make mount Seir most desolate, and cut off from it him that passeth out and him that returneth. <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will fill his mountains with his slain <em>men</em>: in thy hills, and in thy valleys, and in all thy rivers, shall they fall that are slain with the sword. <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will make thee perpetual desolations, and thy cities shall not return: and ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because thou hast said, These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess it; whereas the LORD was there: <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, <em>as</em> I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will even do according to thine anger, and according to thine envy which thou hast used out of thy hatred against them; and I will make myself known among them, when I have judged thee. <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou shalt know that I <em>am</em> the LORD, <em>and that</em> I have heard all thy blasphemies which thou hast spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are laid desolate, they are given us to consume. <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus with your mouth ye have boasted against me, and have multiplied your words against me: I have heard <em>them</em>. <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD; When the whole earth rejoiceth, I will make thee desolate. <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As thou didst rejoice at the inheritance of the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so will I do unto thee: thou shalt be desolate, O mount Seir, and all Idumea, <em>even</em> all of it: and they shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD.

</body>
</html>