<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he said unto me, Son of man, stand upon thy feet, and I will speak unto thee. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the spirit entered into me when he spake unto me, and set me upon my feet, that I heard him that spake unto me. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said unto me, Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel, to a rebellious nation that hath rebelled against me: they and their fathers have transgressed against me, <em>even</em> unto this very day. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For <em>they are</em> impudent children and stiffhearted. I do send thee unto them; and thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear, (for they <em>are</em> a rebellious house,) yet shall know that there hath been a prophet among them. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou, son of man, be not afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns <em>be</em> with thee, and thou dost dwell among scorpions: be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they <em>be</em> a rebellious house. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou shalt speak my words unto them, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear: for they <em>are</em> most rebellious. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But thou, son of man, hear what I say unto thee; Be not thou rebellious like that rebellious house: open thy mouth, and eat that I give thee. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when I looked, behold, an hand <em>was</em> sent unto me; and, lo, a roll of a book <em>was</em> therein; <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he spread it before me; and it <em>was</em> written within and without: and <em>there was</em> written therein lamentations, and mourning, and woe.

</body>
</html>