<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 19</h2>

<a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover take thou up a lamentation for the princes of Israel, <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And say, What <em>is</em> thy mother? A lioness: she lay down among lions, she nourished her whelps among young lions. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And she brought up one of her whelps: it became a young lion, and it learned to catch the prey; it devoured men. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The nations also heard of him; he was taken in their pit, and they brought him with chains unto the land of Egypt. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now when she saw that she had waited, <em>and</em> her hope was lost, then she took another of her whelps, <em>and</em> made him a young lion. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he went up and down among the lions, he became a young lion, and learned to catch the prey, <em>and</em> devoured men. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he knew their desolate palaces, and he laid waste their cities; and the land was desolate, and the fulness thereof, by the noise of his roaring. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then the nations set against him on every side from the provinces, and spread their net over him: he was taken in their pit. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they put him in ward in chains, and brought him to the king of Babylon: they brought him into holds, that his voice should no more be heard upon the mountains of Israel. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy mother <em>is</em> like a vine in thy blood, planted by the waters: she was fruitful and full of branches by reason of many waters. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And she had strong rods for the sceptres of them that bare rule, and her stature was exalted among the thick branches, and she appeared in her height with the multitude of her branches. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But she was plucked up in fury, she was cast down to the ground, and the east wind dried up her fruit: her strong rods were broken and withered; the fire consumed them. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And now she <em>is</em> planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty ground. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And fire is gone out of a rod of her branches, <em>which</em> hath devoured her fruit, so that she hath no strong rod <em>to be</em> a sceptre to rule. This <em>is</em> a lamentation, and shall be for a lamentation.

</body>
</html>