<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 37</h2>

<a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The hand of the LORD was upon me, and carried me out in the spirit of the LORD, and set me down in the midst of the valley which <em>was</em> full of bones, <a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And caused me to pass by them round about: and, behold, <em>there were</em> very many in the open valley; and, lo, <em>they were</em> very dry. <a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord GOD, thou knowest. <a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Again he said unto me, Prophesy upon these bones, and say unto them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of the LORD. <a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus saith the Lord GOD unto these bones; Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall live: <a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD. <a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to his bone. <a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when I beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh came up upon them, and the skin covered them above: but <em>there was</em> no breath in them. <a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live. <a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great army. <a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then he said unto me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones are dried, and our hope is lost: we are cut off for our parts. <a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore prophesy and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, O my people, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel. <a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And ye shall know that I <em>am</em> the LORD, when I have opened your graves, O my people, and brought you up out of your graves, <a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And shall put my spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I shall place you in your own land: then shall ye know that I the LORD have spoken <em>it</em>, and performed <em>it</em>, saith the LORD. <a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying, <a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and <em>for</em> all the house of Israel his companions: <a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall become one in thine hand. <a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And when the children of thy people shall speak unto thee, saying, Wilt thou not shew us what thou <em>meanest</em> by these? <a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which <em>is</em> in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his fellows, and will put them with him, <em>even</em> with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they shall be one in mine hand. <a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the sticks whereon thou writest shall be in thine hand before their eyes. <a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the heathen, whither they be gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land: <a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all: and they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all: <a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions: but I will save them out of all their dwellingplaces, wherein they have sinned, and will cleanse them: so shall they be my people, and I will be their God. <a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And David my servant <em>shall be</em> king over them; and they all shall have one shepherd: they shall also walk in my judgments, and observe my statutes, and do them. <a id="c37_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob my servant, wherein your fathers have dwelt; and they shall dwell therein, <em>even</em> they, and their children, and their children's children for ever: and my servant David <em>shall be</em> their prince for ever. <a id="c37_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them: and I will place them, and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore. <a id="c37_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My tabernacle also shall be with them: yea, I will be their God, and they shall be my people. <a id="c37_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the heathen shall know that I the LORD do sanctify Israel, when my sanctuary shall be in the midst of them for evermore.

</body>
</html>