<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar a vision appeared unto me, <em>even unto</em> me Daniel, after that which appeared unto me at the first. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I saw in a vision; and it came to pass, when I saw, that I <em>was</em> at Shushan <em>in</em> the palace, which <em>is</em> in the province of Elam; and I saw in a vision, and I was by the river of Ulai. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there stood before the river a ram which had <em>two</em> horns: and the <em>two</em> horns <em>were</em> high; but one <em>was</em> higher than the other, and the higher came up last. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; so that no beasts might stand before him, neither <em>was there any</em> that could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, and became great. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And as I was considering, behold, an he goat came from the west on the face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground: and the goat <em>had</em> a notable horn between his eyes. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he came to the ram that had <em>two</em> horns, which I had seen standing before the river, and ran unto him in the fury of his power. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved with choler against him, and smote the ram, and brake his two horns: and there was no power in the ram to stand before him, but he cast him down to the ground, and stamped upon him: and there was none that could deliver the ram out of his hand. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore the he goat waxed very great: and when he was strong, the great horn was broken; and for it came up four notable ones toward the four winds of heaven. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which waxed exceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the pleasant <em>land</em>. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And it waxed great, <em>even</em> to the host of heaven; and it cast down <em>some</em> of the host and of the stars to the ground, and stamped upon them. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yea, he magnified <em>himself</em> even to the prince of the host, and by him the daily <em>sacrifice</em> was taken away, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And an host was given <em>him</em> against the daily <em>sacrifice</em> by reason of transgression, and it cast down the truth to the ground; and it practised, and prospered. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto that certain <em>saint</em> which spake, How long <em>shall be</em> the vision <em>concerning</em> the daily <em>sacrifice</em>, and the transgression of desolation, to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot? <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he said unto me, Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass, when I, <em>even</em> I Daniel, had seen the vision, and sought for the meaning, then, behold, there stood before me as the appearance of a man. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I heard a man's voice between <em>the banks of</em> Ulai, which called, and said, Gabriel, make this <em>man</em> to understand the vision. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So he came near where I stood: and when he came, I was afraid, and fell upon my face: but he said unto me, Understand, O son of man: for at the time of the end <em>shall be</em> the vision. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now as he was speaking with me, I was in a deep sleep on my face toward the ground: but he touched me, and set me upright. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said, Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in the last end of the indignation: for at the time appointed the end <em>shall be</em>. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The ram which thou sawest having <em>two</em> horns <em>are</em> the kings of Media and Persia. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the rough goat <em>is</em> the king of Grecia: and the great horn that <em>is</em> between his eyes <em>is</em> the first king. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now that being broken, whereas four stood up for it, four kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but not in his power. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And in the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors are come to the full, a king of fierce countenance, and understanding dark sentences, shall stand up. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power: and he shall destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper, and practise, and shall destroy the mighty and the holy people. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And through his policy also he shall cause craft to prosper in his hand; and he shall magnify <em>himself</em> in his heart, and by peace shall destroy many: he shall also stand up against the Prince of princes; but he shall be broken without hand. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the vision of the evening and the morning which was told <em>is</em> true: wherefore shut thou up the vision; for it <em>shall be</em> for many days. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I Daniel fainted, and was sick <em>certain</em> days; afterward I rose up, and did the king's business; and I was astonished at the vision, but none understood <em>it</em>.

</body>
</html>