<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah came Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon unto Jerusalem, and besieged it. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with part of the vessels of the house of God: which he carried into the land of Shinar to the house of his god; and he brought the vessels into the treasure house of his god. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the king spake unto Ashpenaz the master of his eunuchs, that he should bring <em>certain</em> of the children of Israel, and of the king's seed, and of the princes; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Children in whom <em>was</em> no blemish, but well favoured, and skilful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge, and understanding science, and such as <em>had</em> ability in them to stand in the king's palace, and whom they might teach the learning and the tongue of the Chaldeans. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat, and of the wine which he drank: so nourishing them three years, that at the end thereof they might stand before the king. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now among these were of the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah: <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Unto whom the prince of the eunuchs gave names: for he gave unto Daniel <em>the name</em> of Belteshazzar; and to Hananiah, of Shadrach; and to Mishael, of Meshach; and to Azariah, of Abednego. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank: therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now God had brought Daniel into favour and tender love with the prince of the eunuchs. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the prince of the eunuchs said unto Daniel, I fear my lord the king, who hath appointed your meat and your drink: for why should he see your faces worse liking than the children which <em>are</em> of your sort? then shall ye make <em>me</em> endanger my head to the king. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then said Daniel to Melzar, whom the prince of the eunuchs had set over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Prove thy servants, I beseech thee, ten days; and let them give us pulse to eat, and water to drink. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then let our countenances be looked upon before thee, and the countenance of the children that eat of the portion of the king's meat: and as thou seest, deal with thy servants. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So he consented to them in this matter, and proved them ten days. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus Melzar took away the portion of their meat, and the wine that they should drink; and gave them pulse. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now at the end of the days that the king had said he should bring them in, then the prince of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the king communed with them; and among them all was found none like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah: therefore stood they before the king. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And in all matters of wisdom <em>and</em> understanding, that the king enquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians <em>and</em> astrologers that <em>were</em> in all his realm. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Daniel continued <em>even</em> unto the first year of king Cyrus.

</body>
</html>