<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Come, and let us return unto the LORD: for he hath torn, and he will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> After two days will he revive us: in the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live in his sight. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then shall we know, <em>if</em> we follow on to know the LORD: his going forth is prepared as the morning; and he shall come unto us as the rain, as the latter <em>and</em> former rain unto the earth. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> O Ephraim, what shall I do unto thee? O Judah, what shall I do unto thee? for your goodness <em>is</em> as a morning cloud, and as the early dew it goeth away. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore have I hewed <em>them</em> by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth: and thy judgments <em>are as</em> the light <em>that</em> goeth forth. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I desired mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But they like men have transgressed the covenant: there have they dealt treacherously against me. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Gilead <em>is</em> a city of them that work iniquity, <em>and is</em> polluted with blood. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And as troops of robbers wait for a man, <em>so</em> the company of priests murder in the way by consent: for they commit lewdness. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have seen an horrible thing in the house of Israel: there <em>is</em> the whoredom of Ephraim, Israel is defiled. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Also, O Judah, he hath set an harvest for thee, when I returned the captivity of my people.

</body>
</html>