<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy, as <em>other</em> people: for thou hast gone a whoring from thy God, thou hast loved a reward upon every cornfloor. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail in her. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They shall not dwell in the LORD'S land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean <em>things</em> in Assyria. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They shall not offer wine <em>offerings</em> to the LORD, neither shall they be pleasing unto him: their sacrifices <em>shall be</em> unto them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted: for their bread for their soul shall not come into the house of the LORD. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> What will ye do in the solemn day, and in the day of the feast of the LORD? <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For, lo, they are gone because of destruction: Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them: the pleasant <em>places</em> for their silver, nettles shall possess them: thorns <em>shall be</em> in their tabernacles. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The days of visitation are come, the days of recompence are come; Israel shall know <em>it</em>: the prophet <em>is</em> a fool, the spiritual man <em>is</em> mad, for the multitude of thine iniquity, and the great hatred. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The watchman of Ephraim <em>was</em> with my God: <em>but</em> the prophet <em>is</em> a snare of a fowler in all his ways, <em>and</em> hatred in the house of his God. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They have deeply corrupted <em>themselves</em>, as in the days of Gibeah: <em>therefore</em> he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their sins. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the firstripe in the fig tree at her first time: <em>but</em> they went to Baalpeor, and separated themselves unto <em>that</em> shame; and <em>their</em> abominations were according as they loved. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>As for</em> Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird, from the birth, and from the womb, and from the conception. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, <em>that there shall</em> not <em>be</em> a man <em>left</em>: yea, woe also to them when I depart from them! <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ephraim, as I saw Tyrus, <em>is</em> planted in a pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the murderer. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Give them, O LORD: what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All their wickedness <em>is</em> in Gilgal: for there I hated them: for the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of mine house, I will love them no more: all their princes <em>are</em> revolters. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay <em>even</em> the beloved <em>fruit</em> of their womb. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto him: and they shall be wanderers among the nations.

</body>
</html>