<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear the word of the LORD, ye children of Israel: for the LORD hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because <em>there is</em> no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> By swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery, they break out, and blood toucheth blood. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field, and with the fowls of heaven; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another: for thy people <em>are</em> as they that strive with the priest. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore shalt thou fall in the day, and the prophet also shall fall with thee in the night, and I will destroy thy mother. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As they were increased, so they sinned against me: <em>therefore</em> will I change their glory into shame. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They eat up the sin of my people, and they set their heart on their iniquity. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And there shall be, like people, like priest: and I will punish them for their ways, and reward them their doings. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For they shall eat, and not have enough: they shall commit whoredom, and shall not increase: because they have left off to take heed to the LORD. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the heart. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My people ask counsel at their stocks, and their staff declareth unto them: for the spirit of whoredoms hath caused <em>them</em> to err, and they have gone a whoring from under their God. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and elms, because the shadow thereof <em>is</em> good: therefore your daughters shall commit whoredom, and your spouses shall commit adultery. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will not punish your daughters when they commit whoredom, nor your spouses when they commit adultery: for themselves are separated with whores, and they sacrifice with harlots: therefore the people <em>that</em> doth not understand shall fall. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, <em>yet</em> let not Judah offend; and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Bethaven, nor swear, The LORD liveth. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For Israel slideth back as a backsliding heifer: now the LORD will feed them as a lamb in a large place. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Ephraim <em>is</em> joined to idols: let him alone. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their drink is sour: they have committed whoredom continually: her rulers <em>with</em> shame do love, Give ye. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The wind hath bound her up in her wings, and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices.

</body>
</html>