<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 12</h2>

<a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he daily increaseth lies and desolation; and they do make a covenant with the Assyrians, and oil is carried into Egypt. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The LORD hath also a controversy with Judah, and will punish Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he recompense him. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He took his brother by the heel in the womb, and by his strength he had power with God: <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yea, he had power over the angel, and prevailed: he wept, and made supplication unto him: he found him <em>in</em> Bethel, and there he spake with us; <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Even the LORD God of hosts; the LORD <em>is</em> his memorial. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment, and wait on thy God continually. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>He is</em> a merchant, the balances of deceit <em>are</em> in his hand: he loveth to oppress. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Ephraim said, Yet I am become rich, I have found me out substance: <em>in</em> all my labours they shall find none iniquity in me that <em>were</em> sin. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I <em>that am</em> the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt will yet make thee to dwell in tabernacles, as in the days of the solemn feast. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have also spoken by the prophets, and I have multiplied visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry of the prophets. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>Is there</em> iniquity <em>in</em> Gilead? surely they are vanity: they sacrifice bullocks in Gilgal; yea, their altars <em>are</em> as heaps in the furrows of the fields. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jacob fled into the country of Syria, and Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he kept <em>sheep</em>. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And by a prophet the LORD brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ephraim provoked <em>him</em> to anger most bitterly: therefore shall he leave his blood upon him, and his reproach shall his Lord return unto him.

</body>
</html>