<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalted himself in Israel; but when he offended in Baal, he died. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images of their silver, <em>and</em> idols according to their own understanding, all of it the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that sacrifice kiss the calves. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud, and as the early dew that passeth away, as the chaff <em>that</em> is driven with the whirlwind out of the floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet I <em>am</em> the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou shalt know no god but me: for <em>there is</em> no saviour beside me. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I did know thee in the wilderness, in the land of great drought. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were filled, and their heart was exalted; therefore have they forgotten me. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore I will be unto them as a lion: as a leopard by the way will I observe <em>them</em>: <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will meet them as a bear <em>that is</em> bereaved <em>of her whelps</em>, and will rend the caul of their heart, and there will I devour them like a lion: the wild beast shall tear them. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Israel, thou hast destroyed thyself; but in me <em>is</em> thine help. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will be thy king: where <em>is any other</em> that may save thee in all thy cities? and thy judges of whom thou saidst, Give me a king and princes? <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I gave thee a king in mine anger, and took <em>him</em> away in my wrath. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The iniquity of Ephraim <em>is</em> bound up; his sin <em>is</em> hid. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sorrows of a travailing woman shall come upon him: he <em>is</em> an unwise son; for he should not stay long in <em>the place of</em> the breaking forth of children. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem them from death: O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be thy destruction: repentance shall be hid from mine eyes. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though he be fruitful among <em>his</em> brethren, an east wind shall come, the wind of the LORD shall come up from the wilderness, and his spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall spoil the treasure of all pleasant vessels. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Samaria shall become desolate; for she hath rebelled against her God: they shall fall by the sword: their infants shall be dashed in pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.

</body>
</html>