<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 14</h2>

<a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Israel, return unto the LORD thy God; for thou hast fallen by thine iniquity. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take with you words, and turn to the LORD: say unto him, Take away all iniquity, and receive <em>us</em> graciously: so will we render the calves of our lips. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Asshur shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses: neither will we say any more to the work of our hands, <em>Ye are</em> our gods: for in thee the fatherless findeth mercy. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely: for mine anger is turned away from him. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will be as the dew unto Israel: he shall grow as the lily, and cast forth his roots as Lebanon. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive tree, and his smell as Lebanon. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They that dwell under his shadow shall return; they shall revive <em>as</em> the corn, and grow as the vine: the scent thereof <em>shall be</em> as the wine of Lebanon. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim <em>shall say</em>, What have I to do any more with idols? I have heard <em>him</em>, and observed him: I <em>am</em> like a green fir tree. From me is thy fruit found. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who <em>is</em> wise, and he shall understand these <em>things</em>? prudent, and he shall know them? for the ways of the LORD <em>are</em> right, and the just shall walk in them: but the transgressors shall fall therein.

</body>
</html>