<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Say ye unto your brethren, Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Plead with your mother, plead: for she <em>is</em> not my wife, neither <em>am</em> I her husband: let her therefore put away her whoredoms out of her sight, and her adulteries from between her breasts; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lest I strip her naked, and set her as in the day that she was born, and make her as a wilderness, and set her like a dry land, and slay her with thirst. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will not have mercy upon her children; for they <em>be</em> the children of whoredoms. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For their mother hath played the harlot: she that conceived them hath done shamefully: for she said, I will go after my lovers, that give <em>me</em> my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, mine oil and my drink. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, behold, I will hedge up thy way with thorns, and make a wall, that she shall not find her paths. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she shall follow after her lovers, but she shall not overtake them; and she shall seek them, but shall not find <em>them</em>: then shall she say, I will go and return to my first husband; for then <em>was it</em> better with me than now. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For she did not know that I gave her corn, and wine, and oil, and multiplied her silver and gold, <em>which</em> they prepared for Baal. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore will I return, and take away my corn in the time thereof, and my wine in the season thereof, and will recover my wool and my flax <em>given</em> to cover her nakedness. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And now will I discover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and none shall deliver her out of mine hand. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will also cause all her mirth to cease, her feast days, her new moons, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn feasts. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will destroy her vines and her fig trees, whereof she hath said, These <em>are</em> my rewards that my lovers have given me: and I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall eat them. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I will visit upon her the days of Baalim, wherein she burned incense to them, and she decked herself with her earrings and her jewels, and she went after her lovers, and forgat me, saith the LORD. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak comfortably unto her. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope: and she shall sing there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it shall be at that day, saith the LORD, <em>that</em> thou shalt call me Ishi; and shalt call me no more Baali. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and they shall no more be remembered by their name. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And in that day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts of the field, and with the fowls of heaven, and <em>with</em> the creeping things of the ground: and I will break the bow and the sword and the battle out of the earth, and will make them to lie down safely. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will betroth thee unto me for ever; yea, I will betroth thee unto me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in lovingkindness, and in mercies. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I will even betroth thee unto me in faithfulness: and thou shalt know the LORD. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, I will hear, saith the LORD, I will hear the heavens, and they shall hear the earth; <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the earth shall hear the corn, and the wine, and the oil; and they shall hear Jezreel. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will sow her unto me in the earth; and I will have mercy upon her that had not obtained mercy; and I will say to <em>them which were</em> not my people, Thou <em>art</em> my people; and they shall say, <em>Thou art</em> my God.

</body>
</html>