<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 10</h2>

<a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Israel <em>is</em> an empty vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto himself: according to the multitude of his fruit he hath increased the altars; according to the goodness of his land they have made goodly images. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Their heart is divided; now shall they be found faulty: he shall break down their altars, he shall spoil their images. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For now they shall say, We have no king, because we feared not the LORD; what then should a king do to us? <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have spoken words, swearing falsely in making a covenant: thus judgment springeth up as hemlock in the furrows of the field. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calves of Bethaven: for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests thereof <em>that</em> rejoiced on it, for the glory thereof, because it is departed from it. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> It shall be also carried unto Assyria <em>for</em> a present to king Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>As for</em> Samaria, her king is cut off as the foam upon the water. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they stood: the battle in Gibeah against the children of iniquity did not overtake them. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>It is</em> in my desire that I should chastise them; and the people shall be gathered against them, when they shall bind themselves in their two furrows. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Ephraim <em>is as</em> an heifer <em>that is</em> taught, <em>and</em> loveth to tread out <em>the corn</em>; but I passed over upon her fair neck: I will make Ephraim to ride; Judah shall plow, <em>and</em> Jacob shall break his clods. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap in mercy; break up your fallow ground: for <em>it is</em> time to seek the LORD, till he come and rain righteousness upon you. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have eaten the fruit of lies: because thou didst trust in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Betharbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces upon <em>her</em> children. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So shall Bethel do unto you because of your great wickedness: in a morning shall the king of Israel utterly be cut off.

</body>
</html>