<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 11</h2>

<a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Israel <em>was</em> a child, then I loved him, and called my son out of Egypt. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> <em>As</em> they called them, so they went from them: they sacrificed unto Baalim, and burned incense to graven images. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I taught Ephraim also to go, taking them by their arms; but they knew not that I healed them. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love: and I was to them as they that take off the yoke on their jaws, and I laid meat unto them. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He shall not return into the land of Egypt, but the Assyrian shall be his king, because they refused to return. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the sword shall abide on his cities, and shall consume his branches, and devour <em>them</em>, because of their own counsels. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And my people are bent to backsliding from me: though they called them to the most High, none at all would exalt <em>him</em>. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How shall I give thee up, Ephraim? <em>how</em> shall I deliver thee, Israel? how shall I make thee as Admah? <em>how</em> shall I set thee as Zeboim? mine heart is turned within me, my repentings are kindled together. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not return to destroy Ephraim: for I <em>am</em> God, and not man; the Holy One in the midst of thee: and I will not enter into the city. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They shall walk after the LORD: he shall roar like a lion: when he shall roar, then the children shall tremble from the west. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They shall tremble as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of the land of Assyria: and I will place them in their houses, saith the LORD. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ephraim compasseth me about with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit: but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the saints.

</body>
</html>