<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the LORD that came unto Hosea, the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, <em>and</em> Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The beginning of the word of the LORD by Hosea. And the LORD said to Hosea, Go, take unto thee a wife of whoredoms and children of whoredoms: for the land hath committed great whoredom, <em>departing</em> from the LORD. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; which conceived, and bare him a son. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the LORD said unto him, Call his name Jezreel; for yet a little <em>while</em>, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel upon the house of Jehu, and will cause to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it shall come to pass at that day, that I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezreel. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she conceived again, and bare a daughter. And <em>God</em> said unto him, Call her name Loruhamah: for I will no more have mercy upon the house of Israel; but I will utterly take them away. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But I will have mercy upon the house of Judah, and will save them by the LORD their God, and will not save them by bow, nor by sword, nor by battle, by horses, nor by horsemen. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now when she had weaned Loruhamah, she conceived, and bare a son. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then said <em>God</em>, Call his name Loammi: for ye <em>are</em> not my people, and I will not be your <em>God</em>. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to pass, <em>that</em> in the place where it was said unto them, Ye <em>are</em> not my people, <em>there</em> it shall be said unto them, <em>Ye are</em> the sons of the living God. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then shall the children of Judah and the children of Israel be gathered together, and appoint themselves one head, and they shall come up out of the land: for great <em>shall be</em> the day of Jezreel.

</body>
</html>