<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <em>Set</em> the trumpet to thy mouth. <em>He shall come</em> as an eagle against the house of the LORD, because they have transgressed my covenant, and trespassed against my law. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Israel shall cry unto me, My God, we know thee. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Israel hath cast off <em>the thing that is</em> good: the enemy shall pursue him. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have set up kings, but not by me: they have made princes, and I knew <em>it</em> not: of their silver and their gold have they made them idols, that they may be cut off. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thy calf, O Samaria, hath cast <em>thee</em> off; mine anger is kindled against them: how long <em>will it be</em> ere they attain to innocency? <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For from Israel <em>was</em> it also: the workman made it; therefore it <em>is</em> not God: but the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For they have sown the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind: it hath no stalk: the bud shall yield no meal: if so be it yield, the strangers shall swallow it up. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Israel is swallowed up: now shall they be among the Gentiles as a vessel wherein <em>is</em> no pleasure. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For they are gone up to Assyria, a wild ass alone by himself: Ephraim hath hired lovers. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yea, though they have hired among the nations, now will I gather them, and they shall sorrow a little for the burden of the king of princes. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because Ephraim hath made many altars to sin, altars shall be unto him to sin. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have written to him the great things of my law, <em>but</em> they were counted as a strange thing. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They sacrifice flesh <em>for</em> the sacrifices of mine offerings, and eat <em>it; but</em> the LORD accepteth them not; now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins: they shall return to Egypt. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Israel hath forgotten his Maker, and buildeth temples; and Judah hath multiplied fenced cities: but I will send a fire upon his cities, and it shall devour the palaces thereof.

</body>
</html>