<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye this, O priests; and hearken, ye house of Israel; and give ye ear, O house of the king; for judgment <em>is</em> toward you, because ye have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the revolters are profound to make slaughter, though I <em>have been</em> a rebuker of them all. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraim, thou committest whoredom, <em>and</em> Israel is defiled. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God: for the spirit of whoredoms <em>is</em> in the midst of them, and they have not known the LORD. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore shall Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity; Judah also shall fall with them. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the LORD; but they shall not find <em>him</em>; he hath withdrawn himself from them. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have dealt treacherously against the LORD: for they have begotten strange children: now shall a month devour them with their portions. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, <em>and</em> the trumpet in Ramah: cry aloud <em>at</em> Bethaven, after thee, O Benjamin. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The princes of Judah were like them that remove the bound: <em>therefore</em> I will pour out my wrath upon them like water. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ephraim <em>is</em> oppressed <em>and</em> broken in judgment, because he willingly walked after the commandment. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore <em>will</em> I <em>be</em> unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah <em>saw</em> his wound, then went Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to king Jareb: yet could he not heal you, nor cure you of your wound. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For I <em>will be</em> unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah: I, <em>even</em> I, will tear and go away; I will take away, and none shall rescue <em>him</em>. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will go <em>and</em> return to my place, till they acknowledge their offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me early.

</body>
</html>