<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When I would have healed Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim was discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria: for they commit falsehood; and the thief cometh in, <em>and</em> the troop of robbers spoileth without. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they consider not in their hearts <em>that</em> I remember all their wickedness: now their own doings have beset them about; they are before my face. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They <em>are</em> all adulterers, as an oven heated by the baker, <em>who</em> ceaseth from raising after he hath kneaded the dough, until it be leavened. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In the day of our king the princes have made <em>him</em> sick with bottles of wine; he stretched out his hand with scorners. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For they have made ready their heart like an oven, whiles they lie in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth as a flaming fire. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are all hot as an oven, and have devoured their judges; all their kings are fallen: <em>there is</em> none among them that calleth unto me. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people; Ephraim is a cake not turned. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth <em>it</em> not: yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, yet he knoweth not. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face: and they do not return to the LORD their God, nor seek him for all this. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart: they call to Egypt, they go to Assyria. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring them down as the fowls of the heaven; I will chastise them, as their congregation hath heard. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Woe unto them! for they have fled from me: destruction unto them! because they have transgressed against me: though I have redeemed them, yet they have spoken lies against me. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they have not cried unto me with their heart, when they howled upon their beds: they assemble themselves for corn and wine, <em>and</em> they rebel against me. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though I have bound <em>and</em> strengthened their arms, yet do they imagine mischief against me. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They return, <em>but</em> not to the most High: they are like a deceitful bow: their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue: this <em>shall be</em> their derision in the land of Egypt.

</body>
</html>