<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For, behold, in those days, and in that time, when I shall bring again the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will also gather all nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat, and will plead with them there for my people and <em>for</em> my heritage Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations, and parted my land. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they have cast lots for my people; and have given a boy for an harlot, and sold a girl for wine, that they might drink. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yea, and what have ye to do with me, O Tyre, and Zidon, and all the coasts of Palestine? will ye render me a recompence? and if ye recompense me, swiftly <em>and</em> speedily will I return your recompence upon your own head; <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because ye have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried into your temples my goodly pleasant things: <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The children also of Judah and the children of Jerusalem have ye sold unto the Grecians, that ye might remove them far from their border. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, I will raise them out of the place whither ye have sold them, and will return your recompence upon your own head: <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the children of Judah, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a people far off: for the LORD hath spoken <em>it</em>. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Proclaim ye this among the Gentiles; Prepare war, wake up the mighty men, let all the men of war draw near; let them come up: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruninghooks into spears: let the weak say, I <em>am</em> strong. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Assemble yourselves, and come, all ye heathen, and gather yourselves together round about: thither cause thy mighty ones to come down, O LORD. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let the heathen be wakened, and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat: for there will I sit to judge all the heathen round about. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe: come, get you down; for the press is full, the fats overflow; for their wickedness <em>is</em> great. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the LORD <em>is</em> near in the valley of decision. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall withdraw their shining. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The LORD also shall roar out of Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth shall shake: but the LORD <em>will be</em> the hope of his people, and the strength of the children of Israel. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So shall ye know that I <em>am</em> the LORD your God dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain: then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there shall no strangers pass through her any more. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, <em>that</em> the mountains shall drop down new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the rivers of Judah shall flow with waters, and a fountain shall come forth of the house of the LORD, and shall water the valley of Shittim. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom shall be a desolate wilderness, for the violence <em>against</em> the children of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But Judah shall dwell for ever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For I will cleanse their blood <em>that</em> I have not cleansed: for the LORD dwelleth in Zion.

</body>
</html>