<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain: let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day of the LORD cometh, for <em>it is</em> nigh at hand; <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A day of darkness and of gloominess, a day of clouds and of thick darkness, as the morning spread upon the mountains: a great people and a strong; there hath not been ever the like, neither shall be any more after it, <em>even</em> to the years of many generations. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A fire devoureth before them; and behind them a flame burneth: the land <em>is</em> as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a desolate wilderness; yea, and nothing shall escape them. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The appearance of them <em>is</em> as the appearance of horses; and as horsemen, so shall they run. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Like the noise of chariots on the tops of mountains shall they leap, like the noise of a flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, as a strong people set in battle array. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Before their face the people shall be much pained: all faces shall gather blackness. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They shall run like mighty men; they shall climb the wall like men of war; and they shall march every one on his ways, and they shall not break their ranks: <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Neither shall one thrust another; they shall walk every one in his path: and <em>when</em> they fall upon the sword, they shall not be wounded. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They shall run to and fro in the city; they shall run upon the wall, they shall climb up upon the houses; they shall enter in at the windows like a thief. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The earth shall quake before them; the heavens shall tremble: the sun and the moon shall be dark, and the stars shall withdraw their shining: <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the LORD shall utter his voice before his army: for his camp <em>is</em> very great: for <em>he is</em> strong that executeth his word: for the day of the LORD <em>is</em> great and very terrible; and who can abide it? <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore also now, saith the LORD, turn ye <em>even</em> to me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning: <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the LORD your God: for he <em>is</em> gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who knoweth <em>if</em> he will return and repent, and leave a blessing behind him; <em>even</em> a meat offering and a drink offering unto the LORD your God? <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly: <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Gather the people, sanctify the congregation, assemble the elders, gather the children, and those that suck the breasts: let the bridegroom go forth of his chamber, and the bride out of her closet. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let the priests, the ministers of the LORD, weep between the porch and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people, O LORD, and give not thine heritage to reproach, that the heathen should rule over them: wherefore should they say among the people, Where <em>is</em> their God? <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then will the LORD be jealous for his land, and pity his people. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yea, the LORD will answer and say unto his people, Behold, I will send you corn, and wine, and oil, and ye shall be satisfied therewith: and I will no more make you a reproach among the heathen: <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But I will remove far off from you the northern <em>army</em>, and will drive him into a land barren and desolate, with his face toward the east sea, and his hinder part toward the utmost sea, and his stink shall come up, and his ill savour shall come up, because he hath done great things. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice: for the LORD will do great things. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Be not afraid, ye beasts of the field: for the pastures of the wilderness do spring, for the tree beareth her fruit, the fig tree and the vine do yield their strength. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the LORD your God: for he hath given you the former rain moderately, and he will cause to come down for you the rain, the former rain, and the latter rain in the first <em>month</em>. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the fats shall overflow with wine and oil. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I will restore to you the years that the locust hath eaten, the cankerworm, and the caterpiller, and the palmerworm, my great army which I sent among you. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And ye shall eat in plenty, and be satisfied, and praise the name of the LORD your God, that hath dealt wondrously with you: and my people shall never be ashamed. <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And ye shall know that I <em>am</em> in the midst of Israel, and <em>that</em> I <em>am</em> the LORD your God, and none else: and my people shall never be ashamed. <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it shall come to pass afterward, <em>that</em> I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions: <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my spirit. <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And I will shew wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke. <a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and the terrible day of the LORD come. <a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And it shall come to pass, <em>that</em> whosoever shall call on the name of the LORD shall be delivered: for in mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance, as the LORD hath said, and in the remnant whom the LORD shall call.

</body>
</html>