<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the LORD that came to Joel the son of Pethuel. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land. Hath this been in your days, or even in the days of your fathers? <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Tell ye your children of it, and <em>let</em> your children <em>tell</em> their children, and their children another generation. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That which the palmerworm hath left hath the locust eaten; and that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm eaten; and that which the cankerworm hath left hath the caterpiller eaten. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Awake, ye drunkards, and weep; and howl, all ye drinkers of wine, because of the new wine; for it is cut off from your mouth. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number, whose teeth <em>are</em> the teeth of a lion, and he hath the cheek teeth of a great lion. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig tree: he hath made it clean bare, and cast <em>it</em> away; the branches thereof are made white. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The meat offering and the drink offering is cut off from the house of the LORD; the priests, the LORD'S ministers, mourn. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The field is wasted, the land mourneth; for the corn is wasted: the new wine is dried up, the oil languisheth. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be ye ashamed, O ye husbandmen; howl, O ye vinedressers, for the wheat and for the barley; because the harvest of the field is perished. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The vine is dried up, and the fig tree languisheth; the pomegranate tree, the palm tree also, and the apple tree, <em>even</em> all the trees of the field, are withered: because joy is withered away from the sons of men. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Gird yourselves, and lament, ye priests: howl, ye ministers of the altar: come, lie all night in sackcloth, ye ministers of my God: for the meat offering and the drink offering is withholden from the house of your God. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Sanctify ye a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders <em>and</em> all the inhabitants of the land <em>into</em> the house of the LORD your God, and cry unto the LORD, <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Alas for the day! for the day of the LORD <em>is</em> at hand, and as a destruction from the Almighty shall it come. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Is not the meat cut off before our eyes, <em>yea</em>, joy and gladness from the house of our God? <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The seed is rotten under their clods, the garners are laid desolate, the barns are broken down; for the corn is withered. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> How do the beasts groan! the herds of cattle are perplexed, because they have no pasture; yea, the flocks of sheep are made desolate. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O LORD, to thee will I cry: for the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath burned all the trees of the field. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The beasts of the field cry also unto thee: for the rivers of waters are dried up, and the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness.

</body>
</html>