<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I saw the Lord standing upon the altar: and he said, Smite the lintel of the door, that the posts may shake: and cut them in the head, all of them; and I will slay the last of them with the sword: he that fleeth of them shall not flee away, and he that escapeth of them shall not be delivered. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Though they dig into hell, thence shall mine hand take them; though they climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them down: <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and take them out thence; and though they be hid from my sight in the bottom of the sea, thence will I command the serpent, and he shall bite them: <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And though they go into captivity before their enemies, thence will I command the sword, and it shall slay them: and I will set mine eyes upon them for evil, and not for good. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Lord GOD of hosts <em>is</em> he that toucheth the land, and it shall melt, and all that dwell therein shall mourn: and it shall rise up wholly like a flood; and shall be drowned, as <em>by</em> the flood of Egypt. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> <em>It is</em> he that buildeth his stories in the heaven, and hath founded his troop in the earth; he that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth: The LORD <em>is</em> his name. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>Are</em> ye not as children of the Ethiopians unto me, O children of Israel? saith the LORD. Have not I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt? and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir? <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, the eyes of the Lord GOD <em>are</em> upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from off the face of the earth; saving that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, saith the LORD. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, lo, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among all nations, like as <em>corn</em> is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not the least grain fall upon the earth. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, which say, The evil shall not overtake nor prevent us. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that is fallen, and close up the breaches thereof; and I will raise up his ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old: <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> That they may possess the remnant of Edom, and of all the heathen, which are called by my name, saith the LORD that doeth this. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seed; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall melt. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will bring again the captivity of my people of Israel, and they shall build the waste cities, and inhabit <em>them</em>; and they shall plant vineyards, and drink the wine thereof; they shall also make gardens, and eat the fruit of them. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more be pulled up out of their land which I have given them, saith the LORD thy God.

</body>
</html>