<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not turn away <em>the punishment</em> thereof; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime: <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerioth: and Moab shall die with tumult, with shouting, <em>and</em> with the sound of the trumpet: <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay all the princes thereof with him, saith the LORD. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not turn away <em>the punishment</em> thereof; because they have despised the law of the LORD, and have not kept his commandments, and their lies caused them to err, after the which their fathers have walked: <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not turn away <em>the punishment</em> thereof; because they sold the righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of shoes; <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> That pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn aside the way of the meek: and a man and his father will go in unto the <em>same</em> maid, to profane my holy name: <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they lay <em>themselves</em> down upon clothes laid to pledge by every altar, and they drink the wine of the condemned <em>in</em> the house of their god. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, whose height <em>was</em> like the height of the cedars, and he <em>was</em> strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Also I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and led you forty years through the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for Nazarites. <em>Is it</em> not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith the LORD. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink; and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, I am pressed under you, as a cart is pressed <em>that is</em> full of sheaves. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore the flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mighty deliver himself: <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and <em>he that is</em> swift of foot shall not deliver <em>himself</em>: neither shall he that rideth the horse deliver himself. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And <em>he that is</em> courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, saith the LORD.

</body>
</html>