<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to them <em>that are</em> at ease in Zion, and trust in the mountain of Samaria, <em>which are</em> named chief of the nations, to whom the house of Israel came! <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Pass ye unto Calneh, and see; and from thence go ye to Hamath the great: then go down to Gath of the Philistines: <em>be they</em> better than these kingdoms? or their border greater than your border? <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Ye that put far away the evil day, and cause the seat of violence to come near; <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That lie upon beds of ivory, and stretch themselves upon their couches, and eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calves out of the midst of the stall; <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That chant to the sound of the viol, <em>and</em> invent to themselves instruments of musick, like David; <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That drink wine in bowls, and anoint themselves with the chief ointments: but they are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore now shall they go captive with the first that go captive, and the banquet of them that stretched themselves shall be removed. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord GOD hath sworn by himself, saith the LORD the God of hosts, I abhor the excellency of Jacob, and hate his palaces: therefore will I deliver up the city with all that is therein. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it shall come to pass, if there remain ten men in one house, that they shall die. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And a man's uncle shall take him up, and he that burneth him, to bring out the bones out of the house, and shall say unto him that <em>is</em> by the sides of the house, <em>Is there</em> yet <em>any</em> with thee? and he shall say, No. Then shall he say, Hold thy tongue: for we may not make mention of the name of the LORD. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For, behold, the LORD commandeth, and he will smite the great house with breaches, and the little house with clefts. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Shall horses run upon the rock? will <em>one</em> plow <em>there</em> with oxen? for ye have turned judgment into gall, and the fruit of righteousness into hemlock: <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye which rejoice in a thing of nought, which say, Have we not taken to us horns by our own strength? <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But, behold, I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel, saith the LORD the God of hosts; and they shall afflict you from the entering in of Hemath unto the river of the wilderness.

</body>
</html>