<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye this word which I take up against you, <em>even</em> a lamentation, O house of Israel. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The virgin of Israel is fallen; she shall no more rise: she is forsaken upon her land; <em>there is</em> none to raise her up. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thus saith the Lord GOD; The city that went out <em>by</em> a thousand shall leave an hundred, and that which went forth <em>by</em> an hundred shall leave ten, to the house of Israel. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus saith the LORD unto the house of Israel, Seek ye me, and ye shall live: <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal, and pass not to Beersheba: for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Bethel shall come to nought. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seek the LORD, and ye shall live; lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and devour <em>it</em>, and <em>there be</em> none to quench <em>it</em> in Bethel. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ye who turn judgment to wormwood, and leave off righteousness in the earth, <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>Seek him</em> that maketh the seven stars and Orion, and turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark with night: that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth: The LORD <em>is</em> his name: <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That strengtheneth the spoiled against the strong, so that the spoiled shall come against the fortress. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They hate him that rebuketh in the gate, and they abhor him that speaketh uprightly. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Forasmuch therefore as your treading <em>is</em> upon the poor, and ye take from him burdens of wheat: ye have built houses of hewn stone, but ye shall not dwell in them; ye have planted pleasant vineyards, but ye shall not drink wine of them. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I know your manifold transgressions and your mighty sins: they afflict the just, they take a bribe, and they turn aside the poor in the gate <em>from their right</em>. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore the prudent shall keep silence in that time; for it <em>is</em> an evil time. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live: and so the LORD, the God of hosts, shall be with you, as ye have spoken. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish judgment in the gate: it may be that the LORD God of hosts will be gracious unto the remnant of Joseph. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore the LORD, the God of hosts, the Lord, saith thus; Wailing <em>shall be</em> in all streets; and they shall say in all the highways, Alas! alas! and they shall call the husbandman to mourning, and such as are skilful of lamentation to wailing. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And in all vineyards <em>shall be</em> wailing: for I will pass through thee, saith the LORD. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Woe unto you that desire the day of the LORD! to what end <em>is</em> it for you? the day of the LORD <em>is</em> darkness, and not light. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or went into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> <em>Shall</em> not the day of the LORD <em>be</em> darkness, and not light? even very dark, and no brightness in it? <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I hate, I despise your feast days, and I will not smell in your solemn assemblies. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Though ye offer me burnt offerings and your meat offerings, I will not accept <em>them</em>: neither will I regard the peace offerings of your fat beasts. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Take thou away from me the noise of thy songs; for I will not hear the melody of thy viols. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But let judgment run down as waters, and righteousness as a mighty stream. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Have ye offered unto me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, O house of Israel? <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But ye have borne the tabernacle of your Moloch and Chiun your images, the star of your god, which ye made to yourselves. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus, saith the LORD, whose name <em>is</em> The God of hosts.

</body>
</html>