<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me; and, behold, he formed grasshoppers in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; and, lo, <em>it was</em> the latter growth after the king's mowings. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass, <em>that</em> when they had made an end of eating the grass of the land, then I said, O Lord GOD, forgive, I beseech thee: by whom shall Jacob arise? for he <em>is</em> small. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The LORD repented for this: It shall not be, saith the LORD. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me: and, behold, the Lord GOD called to contend by fire, and it devoured the great deep, and did eat up a part. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then said I, O Lord GOD, cease, I beseech thee: by whom shall Jacob arise? for he <em>is</em> small. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The LORD repented for this: This also shall not be, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus he shewed me: and, behold, the Lord stood upon a wall <em>made</em> by a plumbline, with a plumbline in his hand. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the LORD said unto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A plumbline. Then said the Lord, Behold, I will set a plumbline in the midst of my people Israel: I will not again pass by them any more: <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of the house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For thus Amos saith, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of their own land. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Also Amaziah said unto Amos, O thou seer, go, flee thee away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there: <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But prophesy not again any more at Bethel: for it <em>is</em> the king's chapel, and it <em>is</em> the king's court. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I <em>was</em> no prophet, neither <em>was</em> I a prophet's son; but I <em>was</em> an herdman, and a gatherer of sycomore fruit: <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the LORD took me as I followed the flock, and the LORD said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now therefore hear thou the word of the LORD: Thou sayest, Prophesy not against Israel, and drop not <em>thy word</em> against the house of Isaac. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore thus saith the LORD; Thy wife shall be an harlot in the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land shall be divided by line; and thou shalt die in a polluted land: and Israel shall surely go into captivity forth of his land.

</body>
</html>