<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear this word, ye kine of Bashan, that <em>are</em> in the mountain of Samaria, which oppress the poor, which crush the needy, which say to their masters, Bring, and let us drink. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The Lord GOD hath sworn by his holiness, that, lo, the days shall come upon you, that he will take you away with hooks, and your posterity with fishhooks. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And ye shall go out at the breaches, every <em>cow at that which is</em> before her; and ye shall cast <em>them</em> into the palace, saith the LORD. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Come to Bethel, and transgress; at Gilgal multiply transgression; and bring your sacrifices every morning, <em>and</em> your tithes after three years: <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and proclaim <em>and</em> publish the free offerings: for this liketh you, O ye children of Israel, saith the Lord GOD. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and want of bread in all your places: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And also I have withholden the rain from you, when <em>there were</em> yet three months to the harvest: and I caused it to rain upon one city, and caused it not to rain upon another city: one piece was rained upon, and the piece whereupon it rained not withered. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So two <em>or</em> three cities wandered unto one city, to drink water; but they were not satisfied: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have smitten you with blasting and mildew: when your gardens and your vineyards and your fig trees and your olive trees increased, the palmerworm devoured <em>them</em>: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have sent among you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt: your young men have I slain with the sword, and have taken away your horses; and I have made the stink of your camps to come up unto your nostrils: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have overthrown <em>some</em> of you, as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and ye were as a firebrand plucked out of the burning: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore thus will I do unto thee, O Israel: <em>and</em> because I will do this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For, lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind, and declareth unto man what <em>is</em> his thought, that maketh the morning darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The LORD, The God of hosts, <em>is</em> his name.

</body>
</html>