<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Jonah prayed unto the LORD his God out of the fish's belly, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And said, I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the LORD, and he heard me; out of the belly of hell cried I, <em>and</em> thou heardest my voice. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou hadst cast me into the deep, in the midst of the seas; and the floods compassed me about: all thy billows and thy waves passed over me. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight; yet I will look again toward thy holy temple. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The waters compassed me about, <em>even</em> to the soul: the depth closed me round about, the weeds were wrapped about my head. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I went down to the bottoms of the mountains; the earth with her bars <em>was</em> about me for ever: yet hast thou brought up my life from corruption, O LORD my God. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When my soul fainted within me I remembered the LORD: and my prayer came in unto thee, into thine holy temple. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving; I will pay <em>that</em> that I have vowed. Salvation <em>is</em> of the LORD. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the LORD spake unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah upon the dry <em>land</em>.

</body>
</html>