<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he prayed unto the LORD, and said, I pray thee, O LORD, <em>was</em> not this my saying, when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled before unto Tarshish: for I knew that thou <em>art</em> a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore now, O LORD, take, I beseech thee, my life from me; for <em>it is</em> better for me to die than to live. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then said the LORD, Doest thou well to be angry? <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth, and sat under it in the shadow, till he might see what would become of the city. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the LORD God prepared a gourd, and made <em>it</em> to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head, to deliver him from his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd that it withered. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass, when the sun did arise, that God prepared a vehement east wind; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted, and wished in himself to die, and said, <em>It is</em> better for me to die than to live. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd? And he said, I do well to be angry, <em>even</em> unto death. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then said the LORD, Thou hast had pity on the gourd, for the which thou hast not laboured, neither madest it grow; which came up in a night, and perished in a night: <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And should not I spare Nineveh, that great city, wherein are more than sixscore thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand; and <em>also</em> much cattle?

</body>
</html>