<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of the LORD came unto Jonah the second time, saying, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Arise, go unto Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So Jonah arose, and went unto Nineveh, according to the word of the LORD. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city of three days' journey. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey, and he cried, and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So the people of Nineveh believed God, and proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them even to the least of them. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For word came unto the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, and he laid his robe from him, and covered <em>him</em> with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he caused <em>it</em> to be proclaimed and published through Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste any thing: let them not feed, nor drink water: <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and cry mightily unto God: yea, let them turn every one from his evil way, and from the violence that <em>is</em> in their hands. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who can tell <em>if</em> God will turn and repent, and turn away from his fierce anger, that we perish not? <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way; and God repented of the evil, that he had said that he would do unto them; and he did <em>it</em> not.

</body>
</html>