<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now gather thyself in troops, O daughter of troops: he hath laid siege against us: they shall smite the judge of Israel with a rod upon the cheek. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, <em>though</em> thou be little among the thousands of Judah, <em>yet</em> out of thee shall he come forth unto me <em>that is</em> to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth <em>have been</em> from of old, from everlasting. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore will he give them up, until the time <em>that</em> she which travaileth hath brought forth: then the remnant of his brethren shall return unto the children of Israel. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he shall stand and feed in the strength of the LORD, in the majesty of the name of the LORD his God; and they shall abide: for now shall he be great unto the ends of the earth. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And this <em>man</em> shall be the peace, when the Assyrian shall come into our land: and when he shall tread in our palaces, then shall we raise against him seven shepherds, and eight principal men. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they shall waste the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod in the entrances thereof: thus shall he deliver <em>us</em> from the Assyrian, when he cometh into our land, and when he treadeth within our borders. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many people as a dew from the LORD, as the showers upon the grass, that tarrieth not for man, nor waiteth for the sons of men. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the Gentiles in the midst of many people as a lion among the beasts of the forest, as a young lion among the flocks of sheep: who, if he go through, both treadeth down, and teareth in pieces, and none can deliver. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thine hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all thine enemies shall be cut off. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD, that I will cut off thy horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroy thy chariots: <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and throw down all thy strong holds: <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will cut off witchcrafts out of thine hand; and thou shalt have no <em>more</em> soothsayers: <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy graven images also will I cut off, and thy standing images out of the midst of thee; and thou shalt no more worship the work of thine hands. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of thee: so will I destroy thy cities. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will execute vengeance in anger and fury upon the heathen, such as they have not heard.

</body>
</html>