<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye now what the LORD saith; Arise, contend thou before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear ye, O mountains, the LORD'S controversy, and ye strong foundations of the earth: for the LORD hath a controversy with his people, and he will plead with Israel. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein have I wearied thee? testify against me. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of servants; and I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab consulted, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim unto Gilgal; that ye may know the righteousness of the LORD. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherewith shall I come before the LORD, <em>and</em> bow myself before the high God? shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old? <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, <em>or</em> with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my firstborn <em>for</em> my transgression, the fruit of my body <em>for</em> the sin of my soul? <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath shewed thee, O man, what <em>is</em> good; and what doth the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God? <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The LORD'S voice crieth unto the city, and <em>the man of</em> wisdom shall see thy name: hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Are there yet the treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure <em>that is</em> abominable? <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall I count <em>them</em> pure with the wicked balances, and with the bag of deceitful weights? <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the rich men thereof are full of violence, and the inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and their tongue <em>is</em> deceitful in their mouth. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore also will I make <em>thee</em> sick in smiting thee, in making <em>thee</em> desolate because of thy sins. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou shalt eat, but not be satisfied; and thy casting down <em>shall be</em> in the midst of thee; and thou shalt take hold, but shalt not deliver; and <em>that</em> which thou deliverest will I give up to the sword. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou shalt sow, but thou shalt not reap; thou shalt tread the olives, but thou shalt not anoint thee with oil; and sweet wine, but shalt not drink wine. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and ye walk in their counsels; that I should make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof an hissing: therefore ye shall bear the reproach of my people.

</body>
</html>