<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe is me! for I am as when they have gathered the summer fruits, as the grapegleanings of the vintage: <em>there is</em> no cluster to eat: my soul desired the firstripe fruit. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The good <em>man</em> is perished out of the earth: and <em>there is</em> none upright among men: they all lie in wait for blood; they hunt every man his brother with a net. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> That they may do evil with both hands earnestly, the prince asketh, and the judge <em>asketh</em> for a reward; and the great <em>man</em>, he uttereth his mischievous desire: so they wrap it up. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The best of them <em>is</em> as a brier: the most upright <em>is sharper</em> than a thorn hedge: the day of thy watchmen <em>and</em> thy visitation cometh; now shall be their perplexity. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Trust ye not in a friend, put ye not confidence in a guide: keep the doors of thy mouth from her that lieth in thy bosom. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the son dishonoureth the father, the daughter riseth up against her mother, the daughter in law against her mother in law; a man's enemies <em>are</em> the men of his own house. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore I will look unto the LORD; I will wait for the God of my salvation: my God will hear me. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: when I fall, I shall arise; when I sit in darkness, the LORD <em>shall be</em> a light unto me. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will bear the indignation of the LORD, because I have sinned against him, until he plead my cause, and execute judgment for me: he will bring me forth to the light, <em>and</em> I shall behold his righteousness. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then <em>she that is</em> mine enemy shall see <em>it</em>, and shame shall cover her which said unto me, Where is the LORD thy God? mine eyes shall behold her: now shall she be trodden down as the mire of the streets. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> <em>In</em> the day that thy walls are to be built, <em>in</em> that day shall the decree be far removed. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> <em>In</em> that day <em>also</em> he shall come even to thee from Assyria, and <em>from</em> the fortified cities, and from the fortress even to the river, and from sea to sea, and <em>from</em> mountain to mountain. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Notwithstanding the land shall be desolate because of them that dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Feed thy people with thy rod, the flock of thine heritage, which dwell solitarily <em>in</em> the wood, in the midst of Carmel: let them feed <em>in</em> Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> According to the days of thy coming out of the land of Egypt will I shew unto him marvellous <em>things</em>. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The nations shall see and be confounded at all their might: they shall lay <em>their</em> hand upon <em>their</em> mouth, their ears shall be deaf. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They shall lick the dust like a serpent, they shall move out of their holes like worms of the earth: they shall be afraid of the LORD our God, and shall fear because of thee. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Who <em>is</em> a God like unto thee, that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? he retaineth not his anger for ever, because he delighteth <em>in</em> mercy. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will turn again, he will have compassion upon us; he will subdue our iniquities; and thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob, <em>and</em> the mercy to Abraham, which thou hast sworn unto our fathers from the days of old.

</body>
</html>