<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to them that devise iniquity, and work evil upon their beds! when the morning is light, they practise it, because it is in the power of their hand. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they covet fields, and take <em>them</em> by violence; and houses, and take <em>them</em> away: so they oppress a man and his house, even a man and his heritage. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, against this family do I devise an evil, from which ye shall not remove your necks; neither shall ye go haughtily: for this time <em>is</em> evil. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In that day shall <em>one</em> take up a parable against you, and lament with a doleful lamentation, <em>and</em> say, We be utterly spoiled: he hath changed the portion of my people: how hath he removed <em>it</em> from me! turning away he hath divided our fields. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore thou shalt have none that shall cast a cord by lot in the congregation of the LORD. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Prophesy ye not, <em>say they to them that</em> prophesy: they shall not prophesy to them, <em>that</em> they shall not take shame. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O <em>thou that art</em> named the house of Jacob, is the spirit of the LORD straitened? <em>are</em> these his doings? do not my words do good to him that walketh uprightly? <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Even of late my people is risen up as an enemy: ye pull off the robe with the garment from them that pass by securely as men averse from war. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The women of my people have ye cast out from their pleasant houses; from their children have ye taken away my glory for ever. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Arise ye, and depart; for this <em>is</em> not <em>your</em> rest: because it is polluted, it shall destroy <em>you</em>, even with a sore destruction. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If a man walking in the spirit and falsehood do lie, <em>saying</em>, I will prophesy unto thee of wine and of strong drink; he shall even be the prophet of this people. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will surely assemble, O Jacob, all of thee; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as the sheep of Bozrah, as the flock in the midst of their fold: they shall make great noise by reason of <em>the multitude of</em> men. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The breaker is come up before them: they have broken up, and have passed through the gate, and are gone out by it: and their king shall pass before them, and the LORD on the head of them.

</body>
</html>