<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I said, Hear, I pray you, O heads of Jacob, and ye princes of the house of Israel; <em>Is it</em> not for you to know judgment? <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who hate the good, and love the evil; who pluck off their skin from off them, and their flesh from off their bones; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who also eat the flesh of my people, and flay their skin from off them; and they break their bones, and chop them in pieces, as for the pot, and as flesh within the caldron. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then shall they cry unto the LORD, but he will not hear them: he will even hide his face from them at that time, as they have behaved themselves ill in their doings. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus saith the LORD concerning the prophets that make my people err, that bite with their teeth, and cry, Peace; and he that putteth not into their mouths, they even prepare war against him. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore night <em>shall be</em> unto you, that ye shall not have a vision; and it shall be dark unto you, that ye shall not divine; and the sun shall go down over the prophets, and the day shall be dark over them. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then shall the seers be ashamed, and the diviners confounded: yea, they shall all cover their lips; for <em>there is</em> no answer of God. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But truly I am full of power by the spirit of the LORD, and of judgment, and of might, to declare unto Jacob his transgression, and to Israel his sin. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hear this, I pray you, ye heads of the house of Jacob, and princes of the house of Israel, that abhor judgment, and pervert all equity. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They build up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heads thereof judge for reward, and the priests thereof teach for hire, and the prophets thereof divine for money: yet will they lean upon the LORD, and say, <em>Is</em> not the LORD among us? none evil can come upon us. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore shall Zion for your sake be plowed <em>as</em> a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house as the high places of the forest.

</body>
</html>