<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of the LORD that came to Micah the Morasthite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, <em>and</em> Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, all ye people; hearken, O earth, and all that therein is: and let the Lord GOD be witness against you, the Lord from his holy temple. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, behold, the LORD cometh forth out of his place, and will come down, and tread upon the high places of the earth. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the mountains shall be molten under him, and the valleys shall be cleft, as wax before the fire, <em>and</em> as the waters <em>that are</em> poured down a steep place. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For the transgression of Jacob <em>is</em> all this, and for the sins of the house of Israel. What <em>is</em> the transgression of Jacob? <em>is it</em> not Samaria? and what <em>are</em> the high places of Judah? <em>are they</em> not Jerusalem? <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore I will make Samaria as an heap of the field, <em>and</em> as plantings of a vineyard: and I will pour down the stones thereof into the valley, and I will discover the foundations thereof. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And all the graven images thereof shall be beaten to pieces, and all the hires thereof shall be burned with the fire, and all the idols thereof will I lay desolate: for she gathered <em>it</em> of the hire of an harlot, and they shall return to the hire of an harlot. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore I will wail and howl, I will go stripped and naked: I will make a wailing like the dragons, and mourning as the owls. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For her wound <em>is</em> incurable; for it is come unto Judah; he is come unto the gate of my people, <em>even</em> to Jerusalem. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Declare ye <em>it</em> not at Gath, weep ye not at all: in the house of Aphrah roll thyself in the dust. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Pass ye away, thou inhabitant of Saphir, having thy shame naked: the inhabitant of Zaanan came not forth in the mourning of Bethezel; he shall receive of you his standing. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the inhabitant of Maroth waited carefully for good: but evil came down from the LORD unto the gate of Jerusalem. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O thou inhabitant of Lachish, bind the chariot to the swift beast: she <em>is</em> the beginning of the sin to the daughter of Zion: for the transgressions of Israel were found in thee. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore shalt thou give presents to Moreshethgath: the houses of Achzib <em>shall be</em> a lie to the kings of Israel. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yet will I bring an heir unto thee, O inhabitant of Mareshah: he shall come unto Adullam the glory of Israel. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Make thee bald, and poll thee for thy delicate children; enlarge thy baldness as the eagle; for they are gone into captivity from thee.

</body>
</html>