<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nahum 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nahum 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to the bloody city! it <em>is</em> all full of lies <em>and</em> robbery; the prey departeth not; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The noise of a whip, and the noise of the rattling of the wheels, and of the pransing horses, and of the jumping chariots. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The horseman lifteth up both the bright sword and the glittering spear: and <em>there is</em> a multitude of slain, and a great number of carcases; and <em>there is</em> none end of <em>their</em> corpses; they stumble upon their corpses: <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because of the multitude of the whoredoms of the wellfavoured harlot, the mistress of witchcrafts, that selleth nations through her whoredoms, and families through her witchcrafts. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, I <em>am</em> against thee, saith the LORD of hosts; and I will discover thy skirts upon thy face, and I will shew the nations thy nakedness, and the kingdoms thy shame. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will cast abominable filth upon thee, and make thee vile, and will set thee as a gazingstock. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it shall come to pass, <em>that</em> all they that look upon thee shall flee from thee, and say, Nineveh is laid waste: who will bemoan her? whence shall I seek comforters for thee? <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Art thou better than populous No, that was situate among the rivers, <em>that had</em> the waters round about it, whose rampart <em>was</em> the sea, <em>and</em> her wall <em>was</em> from the sea? <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ethiopia and Egypt <em>were</em> her strength, and <em>it was</em> infinite; Put and Lubim were thy helpers. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet <em>was</em> she carried away, she went into captivity: her young children also were dashed in pieces at the top of all the streets: and they cast lots for her honourable men, and all her great men were bound in chains. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou also shalt be drunken: thou shalt be hid, thou also shalt seek strength because of the enemy. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All thy strong holds <em>shall be like</em> fig trees with the firstripe figs: if they be shaken, they shall even fall into the mouth of the eater. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, thy people in the midst of thee <em>are</em> women: the gates of thy land shall be set wide open unto thine enemies: the fire shall devour thy bars. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Draw thee waters for the siege, fortify thy strong holds: go into clay, and tread the morter, make strong the brickkiln. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There shall the fire devour thee; the sword shall cut thee off, it shall eat thee up like the cankerworm: make thyself many as the cankerworm, make thyself many as the locusts. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou hast multiplied thy merchants above the stars of heaven: the cankerworm spoileth, and flieth away. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thy crowned <em>are</em> as the locusts, and thy captains as the great grasshoppers, which camp in the hedges in the cold day, <em>but</em> when the sun ariseth they flee away, and their place is not known where they <em>are</em>. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thy shepherds slumber, O king of Assyria: thy nobles shall dwell <em>in the dust</em>: thy people is scattered upon the mountains, and no man gathereth <em>them</em>. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> <em>There is</em> no healing of thy bruise; thy wound is grievous: all that hear the bruit of thee shall clap the hands over thee: for upon whom hath not thy wickedness passed continually?

</body>
</html>