<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nahum 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nahum 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He that dasheth in pieces is come up before thy face: keep the munition, watch the way, make <em>thy</em> loins strong, fortify <em>thy</em> power mightily. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the LORD hath turned away the excellency of Jacob, as the excellency of Israel: for the emptiers have emptied them out, and marred their vine branches. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men <em>are</em> in scarlet: the chariots <em>shall be</em> with flaming torches in the day of his preparation, and the fir trees shall be terribly shaken. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The chariots shall rage in the streets, they shall justle one against another in the broad ways: they shall seem like torches, they shall run like the lightnings. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He shall recount his worthies: they shall stumble in their walk; they shall make haste to the wall thereof, and the defence shall be prepared. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The gates of the rivers shall be opened, and the palace shall be dissolved. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Huzzab shall be led away captive, she shall be brought up, and her maids shall lead <em>her</em> as with the voice of doves, tabering upon their breasts. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But Nineveh <em>is</em> of old like a pool of water: yet they shall flee away. Stand, stand, <em>shall they cry</em>; but none shall look back. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Take ye the spoil of silver, take the spoil of gold: for <em>there is</em> none end of the store <em>and</em> glory out of all the pleasant furniture. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> She is empty, and void, and waste: and the heart melteth, and the knees smite together, and much pain <em>is</em> in all loins, and the faces of them all gather blackness. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Where <em>is</em> the dwelling of the lions, and the feedingplace of the young lions, where the lion, <em>even</em> the old lion, walked, <em>and</em> the lion's whelp, and none made <em>them</em> afraid? <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The lion did tear in pieces enough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled his holes with prey, and his dens with ravin. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, I <em>am</em> against thee, saith the LORD of hosts, and I will burn her chariots in the smoke, and the sword shall devour thy young lions: and I will cut off thy prey from the earth, and the voice of thy messengers shall no more be heard.

</body>
</html>