<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Habakkuk 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Habakkuk 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will stand upon my watch, and set me upon the tower, and will watch to see what he will say unto me, and what I shall answer when I am reproved. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the LORD answered me, and said, Write the vision, and make <em>it</em> plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the vision <em>is</em> yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak, and not lie: though it tarry, wait for it; because it will surely come, it will not tarry. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, his soul <em>which</em> is lifted up is not upright in him: but the just shall live by his faith. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yea also, because he transgresseth by wine, <em>he is</em> a proud man, neither keepeth at home, who enlargeth his desire as hell, and <em>is</em> as death, and cannot be satisfied, but gathereth unto him all nations, and heapeth unto him all people: <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Shall not all these take up a parable against him, and a taunting proverb against him, and say, Woe to him that increaseth <em>that which is</em> not his! how long? and to him that ladeth himself with thick clay! <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Shall they not rise up suddenly that shall bite thee, and awake that shall vex thee, and thou shalt be for booties unto them? <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Because thou hast spoiled many nations, all the remnant of the people shall spoil thee; because of men's blood, and <em>for</em> the violence of the land, of the city, and of all that dwell therein. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Woe to him that coveteth an evil covetousness to his house, that he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the power of evil! <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou hast consulted shame to thy house by cutting off many people, and hast sinned <em>against</em> thy soul. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the stone shall cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the timber shall answer it. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Woe to him that buildeth a town with blood, and stablisheth a city by iniquity! <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, <em>is it</em> not of the LORD of hosts that the people shall labour in the very fire, and the people shall weary themselves for very vanity? <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the LORD, as the waters cover the sea. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Woe unto him that giveth his neighbour drink, that puttest thy bottle to <em>him</em>, and makest <em>him</em> drunken also, that thou mayest look on their nakedness! <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou art filled with shame for glory: drink thou also, and let thy foreskin be uncovered: the cup of the LORD'S right hand shall be turned unto thee, and shameful spewing <em>shall be</em> on thy glory. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the violence of Lebanon shall cover thee, and the spoil of beasts, <em>which</em> made them afraid, because of men's blood, and for the violence of the land, of the city, and of all that dwell therein. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What profiteth the graven image that the maker thereof hath graven it; the molten image, and a teacher of lies, that the maker of his work trusteth therein, to make dumb idols? <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Woe unto him that saith to the wood, Awake; to the dumb stone, Arise, it shall teach! Behold, it <em>is</em> laid over with gold and silver, and <em>there is</em> no breath at all in the midst of it. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the LORD <em>is</em> in his holy temple: let all the earth keep silence before him.

</body>
</html>