<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Habakkuk 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Habakkuk 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O LORD, how long shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear! <em>even</em> cry out unto thee <em>of</em> violence, and thou wilt not save! <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Why dost thou shew me iniquity, and cause <em>me</em> to behold grievance? for spoiling and violence <em>are</em> before me: and there are <em>that</em> raise up strife and contention. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore the law is slacked, and judgment doth never go forth: for the wicked doth compass about the righteous; therefore wrong judgment proceedeth. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold ye among the heathen, and regard, and wonder marvellously: for <em>I</em> will work a work in your days, <em>which</em> ye will not believe, though it be told <em>you</em>. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For, lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, <em>that</em> bitter and hasty nation, which shall march through the breadth of the land, to possess the dwellingplaces <em>that are</em> not theirs. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They <em>are</em> terrible and dreadful: their judgment and their dignity shall proceed of themselves. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their horses also are swifter than the leopards, and are more fierce than the evening wolves: and their horsemen shall spread themselves, and their horsemen shall come from far; they shall fly as the eagle <em>that</em> hasteth to eat. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They shall come all for violence: their faces shall sup up <em>as</em> the east wind, and they shall gather the captivity as the sand. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they shall scoff at the kings, and the princes shall be a scorn unto them: they shall deride every strong hold; for they shall heap dust, and take it. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then shall <em>his</em> mind change, and he shall pass over, and offend, <em>imputing</em> this his power unto his god. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> <em>Art</em> thou not from everlasting, O LORD my God, mine Holy One? we shall not die. O LORD, thou hast ordained them for judgment; and, O mighty God, thou hast established them for correction. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> <em>Thou art</em> of purer eyes than to behold evil, and canst not look on iniquity: wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously, <em>and</em> holdest thy tongue when the wicked devoureth <em>the man that is</em> more righteous than he? <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And makest men as the fishes of the sea, as the creeping things, <em>that have</em> no ruler over them? <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They take up all of them with the angle, they catch them in their net, and gather them in their drag: therefore they rejoice and are glad. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore they sacrifice unto their net, and burn incense unto their drag; because by them their portion <em>is</em> fat, and their meat plenteous. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shall they therefore empty their net, and not spare continually to slay the nations?

</body>
</html>