<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Habakkuk 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Habakkuk 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet upon Shigionoth. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O LORD, I have heard thy speech, <em>and</em> was afraid: O LORD, revive thy work in the midst of the years, in the midst of the years make known; in wrath remember mercy. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God came from Teman, and the Holy One from mount Paran. Selah. His glory covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And <em>his</em> brightness was as the light; he had horns <em>coming</em> out of his hand: and there <em>was</em> the hiding of his power. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Before him went the pestilence, and burning coals went forth at his feet. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He stood, and measured the earth: he beheld, and drove asunder the nations; and the everlasting mountains were scattered, the perpetual hills did bow: his ways <em>are</em> everlasting. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction: <em>and</em> the curtains of the land of Midian did tremble. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Was the LORD displeased against the rivers? <em>was</em> thine anger against the rivers? <em>was</em> thy wrath against the sea, that thou didst ride upon thine horses <em>and</em> thy chariots of salvation? <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thy bow was made quite naked, <em>according</em> to the oaths of the tribes, <em>even thy</em> word. Selah. Thou didst cleave the earth with rivers. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The mountains saw thee, <em>and</em> they trembled: the overflowing of the water passed by: the deep uttered his voice, <em>and</em> lifted up his hands on high. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The sun <em>and</em> moon stood still in their habitation: at the light of thine arrows they went, <em>and</em> at the shining of thy glittering spear. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou didst march through the land in indignation, thou didst thresh the heathen in anger. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou wentest forth for the salvation of thy people, <em>even</em> for salvation with thine anointed; thou woundedst the head out of the house of the wicked, by discovering the foundation unto the neck. Selah. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou didst strike through with his staves the head of his villages: they came out as a whirlwind to scatter me: their rejoicing <em>was</em> as to devour the poor secretly. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou didst walk through the sea with thine horses, <em>through</em> the heap of great waters. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When I heard, my belly trembled; my lips quivered at the voice: rottenness entered into my bones, and I trembled in myself, that I might rest in the day of trouble: when he cometh up unto the people, he will invade them with his troops. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither <em>shall</em> fruit <em>be</em> in the vines; the labour of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall yield no meat; the flock shall be cut off from the fold, and <em>there shall be</em> no herd in the stalls: <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yet I will rejoice in the LORD, I will joy in the God of my salvation. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The LORD God <em>is</em> my strength, and he will make my feet like hinds' <em>feet</em>, and he will make me to walk upon mine high places. To the chief singer on my stringed instruments.

</body>
</html>