<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Haggai 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Haggai 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the seventh <em>month</em>, in the one and twentieth <em>day</em> of the month, came the word of the LORD by the prophet Haggai, saying, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, and to the residue of the people, saying, <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who <em>is</em> left among you that saw this house in her first glory? and how do ye see it now? <em>is it</em> not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing? <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, saith the LORD; and be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedech, the high priest; and be strong, all ye people of the land, saith the LORD, and work: for I <em>am</em> with you, saith the LORD of hosts: <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>According to</em> the word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt, so my spirit remaineth among you: fear ye not. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus saith the LORD of hosts; Yet once, it <em>is</em> a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry <em>land</em>; <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come: and I will fill this house with glory, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The silver <em>is</em> mine, and the gold <em>is</em> mine, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The glory of this latter house shall be greater than of the former, saith the LORD of hosts: and in this place will I give peace, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In the four and twentieth <em>day</em> of the ninth <em>month</em>, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, saying, <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Ask now the priests <em>concerning</em> the law, saying, <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If one bear holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt do touch bread, or pottage, or wine, or oil, or any meat, shall it be holy? And the priests answered and said, No. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then said Haggai, If <em>one that is</em> unclean by a dead body touch any of these, shall it be unclean? And the priests answered and said, It shall be unclean. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then answered Haggai, and said, So <em>is</em> this people, and so <em>is</em> this nation before me, saith the LORD; and so <em>is</em> every work of their hands; and that which they offer there <em>is</em> unclean. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And now, I pray you, consider from this day and upward, from before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of the LORD: <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Since those <em>days</em> were, when <em>one</em> came to an heap of twenty <em>measures</em>, there were <em>but</em> ten: when <em>one</em> came to the pressfat for to draw out fifty <em>vessels</em> out of the press, there were <em>but</em> twenty. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I smote you with blasting and with mildew and with hail in all the labours of your hands; yet ye <em>turned</em> not to me, saith the LORD. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Consider now from this day and upward, from the four and twentieth day of the ninth <em>month, even</em> from the day that the foundation of the LORD'S temple was laid, consider <em>it</em>. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Is the seed yet in the barn? yea, as yet the vine, and the fig tree, and the pomegranate, and the olive tree, hath not brought forth: from this day will I bless <em>you</em>. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And again the word of the LORD came unto Haggai in the four and twentieth <em>day</em> of the month, saying, <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth; <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the heathen; and I will overthrow the chariots, and those that ride in them; and the horses and their riders shall come down, every one by the sword of his brother. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, will I take thee, O Zerubbabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel, saith the LORD, and will make thee as a signet: for I have chosen thee, saith the LORD of hosts.

</body>
</html>