<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Haggai 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Haggai 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet unto Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, saying, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, This people say, The time is not come, the time that the LORD'S house should be built. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, saying, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> <em>Is it</em> time for you, O ye, to dwell in your cieled houses, and this house <em>lie</em> waste? <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts; Consider your ways. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages <em>to put it</em> into a bag with holes. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Consider your ways. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Go up to the mountain, and bring wood, and build the house; and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, saith the LORD. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ye looked for much, and, lo, <em>it came</em> to little; and when ye brought <em>it</em> home, I did blow upon it. Why? saith the LORD of hosts. Because of mine house that <em>is</em> waste, and ye run every man unto his own house. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed <em>from</em> her fruit. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon <em>that</em> which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon all the labour of the hands. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the LORD their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the LORD their God had sent him, and the people did fear before the LORD. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then spake Haggai the LORD'S messenger in the LORD'S message unto the people, saying, I <em>am</em> with you, saith the LORD. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the LORD stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and did work in the house of the LORD of hosts, their God, <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In the four and twentieth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.

</body>
</html>