<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Malachi 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Malachi 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the word of the LORD to Israel by Malachi. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have loved you, saith the LORD. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? <em>Was</em> not Esau Jacob's brother? saith the LORD: yet I loved Jacob, <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I hated Esau, and laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places; thus saith the LORD of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; and they shall call them, The border of wickedness, and, The people against whom the LORD hath indignation for ever. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, The LORD will be magnified from the border of Israel. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A son honoureth <em>his</em> father, and a servant his master: if then I <em>be</em> a father, where <em>is</em> mine honour? and if I <em>be</em> a master, where <em>is</em> my fear? saith the LORD of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of the LORD <em>is</em> contemptible. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, <em>is it</em> not evil? and if ye offer the lame and sick, <em>is it</em> not evil? offer it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee, or accept thy person? saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now, I pray you, beseech God that he will be gracious unto us: this hath been by your means: will he regard your persons? saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who <em>is there</em> even among you that would shut the doors <em>for nought</em>? neither do ye kindle <em>fire</em> on mine altar for nought. I have no pleasure in you, saith the LORD of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name <em>shall be</em> great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense <em>shall be</em> offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name <em>shall be</em> great among the heathen, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But ye have profaned it, in that ye say, The table of the LORD <em>is</em> polluted; and the fruit thereof, <em>even</em> his meat, <em>is</em> contemptible. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye said also, Behold, what a weariness <em>is it</em>! and ye have snuffed at it, saith the LORD of hosts; and ye brought <em>that which was</em> torn, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye brought an offering: should I accept this of your hand? saith the LORD. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But cursed <em>be</em> the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing: for I <em>am</em> a great King, saith the LORD of hosts, and my name <em>is</em> dreadful among the heathen.

</body>
</html>