<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Malachi 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Malachi 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in: behold, he shall come, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But who may abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand when he appeareth? for he <em>is</em> like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap: <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he shall sit <em>as</em> a refiner and purifier of silver: and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the LORD an offering in righteousness. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the LORD, as in the days of old, and as in former years. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in <em>his</em> wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger <em>from his right</em>, and fear not me, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I <em>am</em> the LORD, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine ordinances, and have not kept <em>them</em>. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the LORD of hosts. But ye said, Wherein shall we return? <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ye <em>are</em> cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, <em>even</em> this whole nation. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that <em>there shall</em> not <em>be room</em> enough <em>to receive it</em>. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And all nations shall call you blessed: for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your words have been stout against me, saith the LORD. Yet ye say, What have we spoken <em>so much</em> against thee? <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ye have said, It <em>is</em> vain to serve God: and what profit <em>is it</em> that we have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the LORD of hosts? <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, <em>they that</em> tempt God are even delivered. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then they that feared the LORD spake often one to another: and the LORD hearkened, and heard <em>it</em>, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the LORD, and that thought upon his name. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they shall be mine, saith the LORD of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not.

</body>
</html>