<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Malachi 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Malachi 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And now, O ye priests, this commandment <em>is</em> for you. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If ye will not hear, and if ye will not lay <em>it</em> to heart, to give glory unto my name, saith the LORD of hosts, I will even send a curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings: yea, I have cursed them already, because ye do not lay <em>it</em> to heart. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, I will corrupt your seed, and spread dung upon your faces, <em>even</em> the dung of your solemn feasts; and <em>one</em> shall take you away with it. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And ye shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you, that my covenant might be with Levi, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My covenant was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him <em>for</em> the fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid before my name. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquity was not found in his lips: he walked with me in peace and equity, and did turn many away from iniquity. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth: for he <em>is</em> the messenger of the LORD of hosts. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But ye are departed out of the way; ye have caused many to stumble at the law; ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the LORD of hosts. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before all the people, according as ye have not kept my ways, but have been partial in the law. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Have we not all one father? hath not one God created us? why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother, by profaning the covenant of our fathers? <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Judah hath dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah hath profaned the holiness of the LORD which he loved, and hath married the daughter of a strange god. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The LORD will cut off the man that doeth this, the master and the scholar, out of the tabernacles of Jacob, and him that offereth an offering unto the LORD of hosts. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And this have ye done again, covering the altar of the LORD with tears, with weeping, and with crying out, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering any more, or receiveth <em>it</em> with good will at your hand. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet ye say, Wherefore? Because the LORD hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously: yet <em>is</em> she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And did not he make one? Yet had he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the LORD, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away: for <em>one</em> covereth violence with his garment, saith the LORD of hosts: therefore take heed to your spirit, that ye deal not treacherously. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Ye have wearied the LORD with your words. Yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied <em>him</em>? When ye say, Every one that doeth evil <em>is</em> good in the sight of the LORD, and he delighteth in them; or, Where <em>is</em> the God of judgment?

</body>
</html>