<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore when thou doest <em>thine</em> alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth: <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites <em>are</em>: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen <em>do</em>: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as <em>it is</em> in heaven. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Give us this day our daily bread. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you: <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal: <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great <em>is</em> that darkness! <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment? <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature? <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin: <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, <em>shall he</em> not much more <em>clothe</em> you, O ye of little faith? <a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed? <a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> (For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. <a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you. <a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day <em>is</em> the evil thereof.

</body>
</html>