<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 19</h2>

<a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, <em>that</em> when Jesus had finished these sayings, he departed from Galilee, and came into the coasts of Judaea beyond Jordan; <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And great multitudes followed him; and he healed them there. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him, and saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he answered and said unto them, Have ye not read, that he which made <em>them</em> at the beginning made them male and female, <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh? <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They say unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorcement, and to put her away? <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He saith unto them, Moses because of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not so. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except <em>it be</em> for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery: and whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His disciples say unto him, If the case of the man be so with <em>his</em> wife, it is not good to marry. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But he said unto them, All <em>men</em> cannot receive this saying, save <em>they</em> to whom it is given. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For there are some eunuchs, which were so born from <em>their</em> mother's womb: and there are some eunuchs, which were made eunuchs of men: and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He that is able to receive <em>it</em>, let him receive <em>it</em>. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then were there brought unto him little children, that he should put <em>his</em> hands on them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he laid <em>his</em> hands on them, and departed thence. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And, behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life? <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? <em>there is</em> none good but one, <em>that is</em>, God: but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He saith unto him, Which? Jesus said, Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Honour thy father and <em>thy</em> mother: and, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet? <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go <em>and</em> sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come <em>and</em> follow me. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then said Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, That a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And again I say unto you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When his disciples heard <em>it</em>, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved? <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But Jesus beheld <em>them</em>, and said unto them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible. <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed thee; what shall we have therefore? <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That ye which have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life. <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But many <em>that are</em> first shall be last; and the last <em>shall be</em> first.

</body>
</html>