<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat Judas and his brethren; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Judas begat Phares and Zara of Thamar; and Phares begat Esrom; and Esrom begat Aram; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Aram begat Aminadab; and Aminadab begat Naasson; and Naasson begat Salmon; <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Salmon begat Booz of Rachab; and Booz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jesse begat David the king; and David the king begat Solomon of her <em>that had been the wife</em> of Urias; <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Solomon begat Roboam; and Roboam begat Abia; and Abia begat Asa; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Asa begat Josaphat; and Josaphat begat Joram; and Joram begat Ozias; <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Ozias begat Joatham; and Joatham begat Achaz; and Achaz begat Ezekias; <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Ezekias begat Manasses; and Manasses begat Amon; and Amon begat Josias; <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Josias begat Jechonias and his brethren, about the time they were carried away to Babylon: <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And after they were brought to Babylon, Jechonias begat Salathiel; and Salathiel begat Zorobabel; <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Zorobabel begat Abiud; and Abiud begat Eliakim; and Eliakim begat Azor; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Azor begat Sadoc; and Sadoc begat Achim; and Achim begat Eliud; <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Eliud begat Eleazar; and Eleazar begat Matthan; and Matthan begat Jacob; <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So all the generations from Abraham to David <em>are</em> fourteen generations; and from David until the carrying away into Babylon <em>are</em> fourteen generations; and from the carrying away into Babylon unto Christ <em>are</em> fourteen generations. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then Joseph her husband, being a just <em>man</em>, and not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for he shall save his people from their sins. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then Joseph being raised from sleep did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife: <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name JESUS.

</body>
</html>