<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 11</h2>

<a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, when Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and to preach in their cities. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples, <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and shew John again those things which ye do hear and see: <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And blessed is <em>he</em>, whosoever shall not be offended in me. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And as they departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind? <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? behold, they that wear soft <em>clothing</em> are in kings' houses. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For this is <em>he</em>, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent take it by force. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if ye will receive <em>it</em>, this is Elias, which was for to come. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the markets, and calling unto their fellows, <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned unto you, and ye have not lamented. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a devil. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of her children. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not: <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works, which were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment, than for you. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be brought down to hell: for if the mighty works, which have been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But I say unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for thee. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Even so, Father: for so it seemed good in thy sight. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All things are delivered unto me of my Father: and no man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and <em>he</em> to whomsoever the Son will reveal <em>him</em>. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Come unto me, all <em>ye</em> that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For my yoke <em>is</em> easy, and my burden is light.

</body>
</html>