<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 10</h2>

<a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when he had called unto <em>him</em> his twelve disciples, he gave them power <em>against</em> unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the names of the twelve apostles are these; The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James <em>the son</em> of Zebedee, and John his brother; <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the publican; James <em>the son</em> of Alphaeus, and Lebbaeus, whose surname was Thaddaeus; <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying, Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into <em>any</em> city of the Samaritans enter ye not: <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses, <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Nor scrip for <em>your</em> journey, neither two coats, neither shoes, nor yet staves: for the workman is worthy of his meat. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And into whatsoever city or town ye shall enter, enquire who in it is worthy; and there abide till ye go thence. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when ye come into an house, salute it. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But beware of men: for they will deliver you up to the councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues; <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And ye shall be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them and the Gentiles. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But when they deliver you up, take no thought how or what ye shall speak: for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For it is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father which speaketh in you. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the brother shall deliver up the brother to death, and the father the child: and the children shall rise up against <em>their</em> parents, and cause them to be put to death. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And ye shall be hated of all <em>men</em> for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall be saved. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But when they persecute you in this city, flee ye into another: for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have gone over the cities of Israel, till the Son of man be come. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The disciple is not above <em>his</em> master, nor the servant above his lord. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more <em>shall they call</em> them of his household? <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known. <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> What I tell you in darkness, <em>that</em> speak ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear, <em>that</em> preach ye upon the housetops. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven. <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven. <a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword. <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law. <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And a man's foes <em>shall be</em> they of his own household. <a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. <a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he that taketh not his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me. <a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it. <a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. <a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward; and he that receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward. <a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold <em>water</em> only in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.

</body>
</html>