<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 12</h2>

<a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time Jesus went on the sabbath day through the corn; and his disciples were an hungred, and began to pluck the ears of corn, and to eat. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But when the Pharisees saw <em>it</em>, they said unto him, Behold, thy disciples do that which is not lawful to do upon the sabbath day. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But he said unto them, Have ye not read what David did, when he was an hungred, and they that were with him; <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> How he entered into the house of God, and did eat the shewbread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for them which were with him, but only for the priests? <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or have ye not read in the law, how that on the sabbath days the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and are blameless? <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I say unto you, That in this place is <em>one</em> greater than the temple. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if ye had known what <em>this</em> meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned the guiltless. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the Son of man is Lord even of the sabbath day. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when he was departed thence, he went into their synagogue: <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And, behold, there was a man which had <em>his</em> hand withered. And they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath days? that they might accuse him. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said unto them, What man shall there be among you, that shall have one sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the sabbath day, will he not lay hold on it, and lift <em>it</em> out? <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> How much then is a man better than a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then saith he to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched <em>it</em> forth; and it was restored whole, like as the other. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then the Pharisees went out, and held a council against him, how they might destroy him. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But when Jesus knew <em>it</em>, he withdrew himself from thence: and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all; <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And charged them that they should not make him known: <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased: I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall shew judgment to the Gentiles. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall not strive, nor cry; neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory. <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And in his name shall the Gentiles trust. <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then was brought unto him one possessed with a devil, blind, and dumb: and he healed him, insomuch that the blind and dumb both spake and saw. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the son of David? <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But when the Pharisees heard <em>it</em>, they said, This <em>fellow</em> doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of the devils. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Jesus knew their thoughts, and said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand: <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself; how shall then his kingdom stand? <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast <em>them</em> out? therefore they shall be your judges. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you. <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man? and then he will spoil his house. <a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He that is not with me is against me; and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad. <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy <em>against</em> the <em>Holy</em> Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men. <a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the <em>world</em> to come. <a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Either make the tree good, and his fruit good; or else make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt: for the tree is known by <em>his</em> fruit. <a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. <a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. <a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But I say unto you, That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment. <a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. <a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee. <a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas: <a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. <a id="c12_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: because they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas <em>is</em> here. <a id="c12_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon <em>is</em> here. <a id="c12_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none. <a id="c12_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then he saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out; and when he is come, he findeth <em>it</em> empty, swept, and garnished. <a id="c12_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last <em>state</em> of that man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this wicked generation. <a id="c12_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> While he yet talked to the people, behold, <em>his</em> mother and his brethren stood without, desiring to speak with him. <a id="c12_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee. <a id="c12_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> But he answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren? <a id="c12_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren! <a id="c12_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.

</body>
</html>