<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 14</h2>

<a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus, <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And said unto his servants, This is John the Baptist; he is risen from the dead; and therefore mighty works do shew forth themselves in him. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put <em>him</em> in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But when Herod's birthday was kept, the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatsoever she would ask. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And she, being before instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John Baptist's head in a charger. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the king was sorry: nevertheless for the oath's sake, and them which sat with him at meat, he commanded <em>it</em> to be given <em>her</em>. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And his head was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she brought <em>it</em> to her mother. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And his disciples came, and took up the body, and buried it, and went and told Jesus. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When Jesus heard <em>of it</em>, he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart: and when the people had heard <em>thereof</em>, they followed him on foot out of the cities. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jesus went forth, and saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying, This is a desert place, and the time is now past; send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves victuals. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Jesus said unto them, They need not depart; give ye them to eat. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves, and two fishes. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He said, Bring them hither to me. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass, and took the five loaves, and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake, and gave the loaves to <em>his</em> disciples, and the disciples to the multitude. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they did all eat, and were filled: and they took up of the fragments that remained twelve baskets full. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they that had eaten were about five thousand men, beside women and children. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship, and to go before him unto the other side, while he sent the multitudes away. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was come, he was there alone. <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was contrary. <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea. <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me. <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And immediately Jesus stretched forth <em>his</em> hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? <a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And when they were come into the ship, the wind ceased. <a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth thou art the Son of God. <a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And when they were gone over, they came into the land of Gennesaret. <a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And when the men of that place had knowledge of him, they sent out into all that country round about, and brought unto him all that were diseased; <a id="c14_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And besought him that they might only touch the hem of his garment: and as many as touched were made perfectly whole.

</body>
</html>