<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 26</h2>

<a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said unto his disciples, <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye know that after two days is <em>the feast of</em> the passover, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified. <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then assembled together the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders of the people, unto the palace of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas, <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtilty, and kill <em>him</em>. <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they said, Not on the feast <em>day</em>, lest there be an uproar among the people. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head, as he sat <em>at meat</em>. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But when his disciples saw <em>it</em>, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose <em>is</em> this waste? <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When Jesus understood <em>it</em>, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? for she hath wrought a good work upon me. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did <em>it</em> for my burial. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, <em>there</em> shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went unto the chief priests, <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And said <em>unto them</em>, What will ye give me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And from that time he sought opportunity to betray him. <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now the first <em>day</em> of the <em>feast of</em> unleavened bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the passover? <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, Go into the city to such a man, and say unto him, The Master saith, My time is at hand; I will keep the passover at thy house with my disciples. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them; and they made ready the passover. <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now when the even was come, he sat down with the twelve. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I? <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he answered and said, He that dippeth <em>his</em> hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. <a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe unto that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! it had been good for that man if he had not been born. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said. <a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed <em>it</em>, and brake <em>it</em>, and gave <em>it</em> to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. <a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave <em>it</em> to them, saying, Drink ye all of it; <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. <a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. <a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives. <a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad. <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But after I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee. <a id="c26_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Peter answered and said unto him, Though all <em>men</em> shall be offended because of thee, <em>yet</em> will I never be offended. <a id="c26_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this night, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. <a id="c26_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples. <a id="c26_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder. <a id="c26_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. <a id="c26_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me. <a id="c26_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he went a little further, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou <em>wilt</em>. <a id="c26_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour? <a id="c26_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed <em>is</em> willing, but the flesh <em>is</em> weak. <a id="c26_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> He went away again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done. <a id="c26_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he came and found them asleep again: for their eyes were heavy. <a id="c26_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he left them, and went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words. <a id="c26_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then cometh he to his disciples, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take <em>your</em> rest: behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. <a id="c26_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Rise, let us be going: behold, he is at hand that doth betray me. <a id="c26_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And while he yet spake, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and elders of the people. <a id="c26_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Now he that betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he: hold him fast. <a id="c26_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And forthwith he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, master; and kissed him. <a id="c26_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Jesus said unto him, Friend, wherefore art thou come? Then came they, and laid hands on Jesus, and took him. <a id="c26_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And, behold, one of them which were with Jesus stretched out <em>his</em> hand, and drew his sword, and struck a servant of the high priest's, and smote off his ear. <a id="c26_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Then said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy sword into his place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. <a id="c26_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? <a id="c26_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it must be? <a id="c26_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> In that same hour said Jesus to the multitudes, Are ye come out as against a thief with swords and staves for to take me? I sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and ye laid no hold on me. <a id="c26_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> But all this was done, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsook him, and fled. <a id="c26_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And they that had laid hold on Jesus led <em>him</em> away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled. <a id="c26_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> But Peter followed him afar off unto the high priest's palace, and went in, and sat with the servants, to see the end. <a id="c26_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> Now the chief priests, and elders, and all the council, sought false witness against Jesus, to put him to death; <a id="c26_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> But found none: yea, though many false witnesses came, <em>yet</em> found they none. At the last came two false witnesses, <a id="c26_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And said, This <em>fellow</em> said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days. <a id="c26_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> And the high priest arose, and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing? what <em>is it which</em> these witness against thee? <a id="c26_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> But Jesus held his peace. And the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. <a id="c26_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said: nevertheless I say unto you, Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven. <a id="c26_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy; what further need have we of witnesses? behold, now ye have heard his blasphemy. <a id="c26_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> What think ye? They answered and said, He is guilty of death. <a id="c26_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Then did they spit in his face, and buffeted him; and others smote <em>him</em> with the palms of their hands, <a id="c26_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> Saying, Prophesy unto us, thou Christ, Who is he that smote thee? <a id="c26_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> Now Peter sat without in the palace: and a damsel came unto him, saying, Thou also wast with Jesus of Galilee. <a id="c26_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> But he denied before <em>them</em> all, saying, I know not what thou sayest. <a id="c26_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> And when he was gone out into the porch, another <em>maid</em> saw him, and said unto them that were there, This <em>fellow</em> was also with Jesus of Nazareth. <a id="c26_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man. <a id="c26_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> And after a while came unto <em>him</em> they that stood by, and said to Peter, Surely thou also art <em>one</em> of them; for thy speech bewrayeth thee. <a id="c26_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> Then began he to curse and to swear, <em>saying</em>, I know not the man. And immediately the cock crew. <a id="c26_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> And Peter remembered the word of Jesus, which said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out, and wept bitterly.

</body>
</html>