<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 25</h2>

<a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And five of them were wise, and five <em>were</em> foolish. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They that <em>were</em> foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them: <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But the wise answered, saying, <em>Not so</em>; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For <em>the kingdom of heaven is</em> as a man travelling into a far country, <em>who</em> called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made <em>them</em> other five talents. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And likewise he that <em>had received</em> two, he also gained other two. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money. <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> After a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His lord said unto him, Well done, <em>thou</em> good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them. <a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. <a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed: <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, <em>there</em> thou hast <em>that is</em> thine. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> His lord answered and said unto him, <em>Thou</em> wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed: <a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and <em>then</em> at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Take therefore the talent from him, and give <em>it</em> unto him which hath ten talents. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. <a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory: <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth <em>his</em> sheep from the goats: <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: <a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: <a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. <a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed <em>thee</em>? or thirsty, and gave <em>thee</em> drink? <a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> When saw we thee a stranger, and took <em>thee</em> in? or naked, and clothed <em>thee</em>? <a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? <a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done <em>it</em> unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done <em>it</em> unto me. <a id="c25_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels: <a id="c25_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> For I was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink: <a id="c25_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. <a id="c25_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee? <a id="c25_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did <em>it</em> not to one of the least of these, ye did <em>it</em> not to me. <a id="c25_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal.

</body>
</html>