<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 22</h2>

<a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son, <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Again, he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and <em>my</em> fatlings <em>are</em> killed, and all things <em>are</em> ready: come unto the marriage. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they made light of <em>it</em>, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise: <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the remnant took his servants, and entreated <em>them</em> spitefully, and slew <em>them</em>. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But when the king heard <em>thereof</em>, he was wroth: and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment: <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast <em>him</em> into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For many are called, but few <em>are</em> chosen. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then went the Pharisees, and took counsel how they might entangle him in <em>his</em> talk. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any <em>man</em>: for thou regardest not the person of men. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not? <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, <em>ye</em> hypocrites? <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Shew me the tribute money. And they brought unto him a penny. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he saith unto them, Whose <em>is</em> this image and superscription? <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They say unto him, Caesar's. Then saith he unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When they had heard <em>these words</em>, they marvelled, and left him, and went their way. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that there is no resurrection, and asked him, <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Saying, Master, Moses said, If a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now there were with us seven brethren: and the first, when he had married a wife, deceased, and, having no issue, left his wife unto his brother: <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Likewise the second also, and the third, unto the seventh. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And last of all the woman died also. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore in the resurrection whose wife shall she be of the seven? for they all had her. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jesus answered and said unto them, Ye do err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying, <a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. <a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when the multitude heard <em>this</em>, they were astonished at his doctrine. <a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But when the Pharisees had heard that he had put the Sadducees to silence, they were gathered together. <a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Then one of them, <em>which was</em> a lawyer, asked <em>him a question</em>, tempting him, and saying, <a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Master, which <em>is</em> the great commandment in the law? <a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. <a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> This is the first and great commandment. <a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the second <em>is</em> like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. <a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. <a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, <a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Saying, What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say unto him, <em>The Son</em> of David. <a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He saith unto them, How then doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying, <a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool? <a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> If David then call him Lord, how is he his son? <a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And no man was able to answer him a word, neither durst any <em>man</em> from that day forth ask him any more <em>questions</em>.

</body>
</html>