<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 28</h2>

<a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the end of the sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first <em>day</em> of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And, behold, there was a great earthquake: for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow: <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And for fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead <em>men</em>. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy; and did run to bring his disciples word. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him. <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me. <a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all the things that were done. <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him <em>away</em> while we slept. <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and secure you. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day. <a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when they saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, <em>even</em> unto the end of the world. Amen.

</body>
</html>