<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was set, his disciples came unto him: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying, <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed <em>are</em> the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed <em>are</em> they that mourn: for they shall be comforted. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Blessed <em>are</em> the meek: for they shall inherit the earth. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessed <em>are</em> they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Blessed <em>are</em> the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Blessed <em>are</em> the pure in heart: for they shall see God. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Blessed <em>are</em> the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Blessed <em>are</em> they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Blessed are ye, when <em>men</em> shall revile you, and persecute <em>you</em>, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great <em>is</em> your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach <em>them</em>, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed <em>the righteousness</em> of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment: <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment: and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council: but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee; <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him; lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Verily I say unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery: <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast <em>it</em> from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not <em>that</em> thy whole body should be cast into hell. <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast <em>it</em> from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not <em>that</em> thy whole body should be cast into hell. <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement: <a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But I say unto you, That whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth adultery. <a id="c5_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths: <a id="c5_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne: <a id="c5_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King. <a id="c5_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black. <a id="c5_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil. <a id="c5_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth: <a id="c5_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also. <a id="c5_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have <em>thy</em> cloke also. <a id="c5_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. <a id="c5_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away. <a id="c5_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy. <a id="c5_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you; <a id="c5_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. <a id="c5_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same? <a id="c5_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more <em>than others</em>? do not even the publicans so? <a id="c5_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.

</body>
</html>