<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 23</h2>

<a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then spake Jesus to the multitude, and to his disciples, <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Saying, The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat: <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, <em>that</em> observe and do; but do not ye after their works: for they say, and do not. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne, and lay <em>them</em> on men's shoulders; but they <em>themselves</em> will not move them with one of their fingers. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But all their works they do for to be seen of men: they make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of their garments, <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And love the uppermost rooms at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues, <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And greetings in the markets, and to be called of men, Rabbi, Rabbi. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But be not ye called Rabbi: for one is your Master, <em>even</em> Christ; and all ye are brethren. <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And call no <em>man</em> your father upon the earth: for one is your Father, which is in heaven. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Neither be ye called masters: for one is your Master, <em>even</em> Christ. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased; and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go in <em>yourselves</em>, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayer: therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he is made, ye make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Woe unto you, <em>ye</em> blind guides, which say, Whosoever shall swear by the temple, it is nothing; but whosoever shall swear by the gold of the temple, he is a debtor! <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> <em>Ye</em> fools and blind: for whether is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifieth the gold? <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And, Whosoever shall swear by the altar, it is nothing; but whosoever sweareth by the gift that is upon it, he is guilty. <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> <em>Ye</em> fools and blind: for whether <em>is</em> greater, the gift, or the altar that sanctifieth the gift? <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whoso therefore shall swear by the altar, sweareth by it, and by all things thereon. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And whoso shall swear by the temple, sweareth by it, and by him that dwelleth therein. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he that shall swear by heaven, sweareth by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon. <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier <em>matters</em> of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> <em>Ye</em> blind guides, which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess. <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> <em>Thou</em> blind Pharisee, cleanse first that <em>which is</em> within the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be clean also. <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are like unto whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead <em>men's</em> bones, and of all uncleanness. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye build the tombs of the prophets, and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous, <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And say, If we had been in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Wherefore ye be witnesses unto yourselves, that ye are the children of them which killed the prophets. <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Fill ye up then the measure of your fathers. <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> <em>Ye</em> serpents, <em>ye</em> generation of vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of hell? <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Wherefore, behold, I send unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes: and <em>some</em> of them ye shall kill and crucify; and <em>some</em> of them shall ye scourge in your synagogues, and persecute <em>them</em> from city to city: <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar. <a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Verily I say unto you, All these things shall come upon this generation. <a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, <em>thou</em> that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under <em>her</em> wings, and ye would not! <a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. <a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For I say unto you, Ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed <em>is</em> he that cometh in the name of the Lord.

</body>
</html>