<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple, <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in <em>their</em> hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them; <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came and ministered unto him. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now when Jesus had heard that John was cast into prison, he departed into Galilee; <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is upon the sea coast, in the borders of Zabulon and Nephthalim: <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim, <em>by</em> the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles; <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The people which sat in darkness saw great light; and to them which sat in the region and shadow of death light is sprung up. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they straightway left <em>their</em> nets, and followed him. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And going on from thence, he saw other two brethren, James <em>the son</em> of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and he called them. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they immediately left the ship and their father, and followed him. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease among the people. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And his fame went throughout all Syria: and they brought unto him all sick people that were taken with divers diseases and torments, and those which were possessed with devils, and those which were lunatick, and those that had the palsy; and he healed them. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And there followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee, and <em>from</em> Decapolis, and <em>from</em> Jerusalem, and <em>from</em> Judaea, and <em>from</em> beyond Jordan.

</body>
</html>