<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees, which were of Jerusalem, saying, <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash not their hands when they eat bread. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition? <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For God commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother: and, He that curseth father or mother, let him die the death. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But ye say, Whosoever shall say to <em>his</em> father or <em>his</em> mother, <em>It is</em> a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And honour not his father or his mother, <em>he shall be free</em>. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>Ye</em> hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying, <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with <em>their</em> lips; but their heart is far from me. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But in vain they do worship me, teaching <em>for</em> doctrines the commandments of men. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he called the multitude, and said unto them, Hear, and understand: <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then came his disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, after they heard this saying? <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he answered and said, Every plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let them alone: they be blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then answered Peter and said unto him, Declare unto us this parable. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jesus said, Are ye also yet without understanding? <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Do not ye yet understand, that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly, and is cast out into the draught? <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart; and they defile the man. <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies: <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These are <em>the things</em> which defile a man: but to eat with unwashen hands defileth not a man. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then Jesus went thence, and departed into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And, behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, <em>thou</em> Son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a devil. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away; for she crieth after us. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But he answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then came she and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But he answered and said, It is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast <em>it</em> to dogs. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And she said, Truth, Lord: yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' table. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great <em>is</em> thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jesus departed from thence, and came nigh unto the sea of Galilee; and went up into a mountain, and sat down there. <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And great multitudes came unto him, having with them <em>those that were</em> lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and cast them down at Jesus' feet; and he healed them: <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Insomuch that the multitude wondered, when they saw the dumb to speak, the maimed to be whole, the lame to walk, and the blind to see: and they glorified the God of Israel. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then Jesus called his disciples <em>unto him</em>, and said, I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days, and have nothing to eat: and I will not send them away fasting, lest they faint in the way. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And his disciples say unto him, Whence should we have so much bread in the wilderness, as to fill so great a multitude? <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jesus saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few little fishes. <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground. <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he took the seven loaves and the fishes, and gave thanks, and brake <em>them</em>, and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude. <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they did all eat, and were filled: and they took up of the broken <em>meat</em> that was left seven baskets full. <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And they that did eat were four thousand men, beside women and children. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he sent away the multitude, and took ship, and came into the coasts of Magdala.

</body>
</html>