<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then came together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of the scribes, which came from Jerusalem. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is to say, with unwashen, hands, they found fault. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, except they wash <em>their</em> hands oft, eat not, holding the tradition of the elders. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And <em>when they come</em> from the market, except they wash, they eat not. And many other things there be, which they have received to hold, <em>as</em> the washing of cups, and pots, brasen vessels, and of tables. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashen hands? <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He answered and said unto them, Well hath Esaias prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoureth me with <em>their</em> lips, but their heart is far from me. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching <em>for</em> doctrines the commandments of men. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men, <em>as</em> the washing of pots and cups: and many other such like things ye do. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your own tradition. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For Moses said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Whoso curseth father or mother, let him die the death: <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But ye say, If a man shall say to his father or mother, <em>It is</em> Corban, that is to say, a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; <em>he shall be free</em>. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his mother; <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition, which ye have delivered: and many such like things do ye. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when he had called all the people <em>unto him</em>, he said unto them, Hearken unto me every one <em>of you</em>, and understand: <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There is nothing from without a man, that entering into him can defile him: but the things which come out of him, those are they that defile the man. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If any man have ears to hear, let him hear. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when he was entered into the house from the people, his disciples asked him concerning the parable. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also? Do ye not perceive, that whatsoever thing from without entereth into the man, <em>it</em> cannot defile him; <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Because it entereth not into his heart, but into the belly, and goeth out into the draught, purging all meats? <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said, That which cometh out of the man, that defileth the man. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness: <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> All these evil things come from within, and defile the man. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And from thence he arose, and went into the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and entered into an house, and would have no man know <em>it</em>: but he could not be hid. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For a <em>certain</em> woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit, heard of him, and came and fell at his feet: <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The woman was a Greek, a Syrophenician by nation; and she besought him that he would cast forth the devil out of her daughter. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But Jesus said unto her, Let the children first be filled: for it is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast <em>it</em> unto the dogs. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And she answered and said unto him, Yes, Lord: yet the dogs under the table eat of the children's crumbs. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way; the devil is gone out of thy daughter. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And when she was come to her house, she found the devil gone out, and her daughter laid upon the bed. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And again, departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, he came unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis. <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue; <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal they published <em>it</em>; <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well: he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.

</body>
</html>