<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples saith unto him, Master, see what manner of stones and what buildings <em>are here</em>! <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jesus answering said unto him, Seest thou these great buildings? there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And as he sat upon the mount of Olives over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately, <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Tell us, when shall these things be? and what <em>shall be</em> the sign when all these things shall be fulfilled? <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jesus answering them began to say, Take heed lest any <em>man</em> deceive you: <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For many shall come in my name, saying, I am <em>Christ</em>; and shall deceive many. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars, be ye not troubled: for <em>such things</em> must needs be; but the end <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em> yet. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and there shall be famines and troubles: these <em>are</em> the beginnings of sorrows. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But take heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to councils; and in the synagogues ye shall be beaten: and ye shall be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the gospel must first be published among all nations. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But when they shall lead <em>you</em>, and deliver you up, take no thought beforehand what ye shall speak, neither do ye premeditate: but whatsoever shall be given you in that hour, that speak ye: for it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now the brother shall betray the brother to death, and the father the son; and children shall rise up against <em>their</em> parents, and shall cause them to be put to death. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And ye shall be hated of all <em>men</em> for my name's sake: but he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But when ye shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, (let him that readeth understand,) then let them that be in Judaea flee to the mountains: <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And let him that is on the housetop not go down into the house, neither enter <em>therein</em>, to take any thing out of his house: <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And let him that is in the field not turn back again for to take up his garment. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But woe to them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days! <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And pray ye that your flight be not in the winter. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For <em>in</em> those days shall be affliction, such as was not from the beginning of the creation which God created unto this time, neither shall be. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And except that the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh should be saved: but for the elect's sake, whom he hath chosen, he hath shortened the days. <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And then if any man shall say to you, Lo, here <em>is</em> Christ; or, lo, <em>he is</em> there; believe <em>him</em> not: <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For false Christs and false prophets shall rise, and shall shew signs and wonders, to seduce, if <em>it were</em> possible, even the elect. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But take ye heed: behold, I have foretold you all things. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the stars of heaven shall fall, and the powers that are in heaven shall be shaken. <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the uttermost part of heaven. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When her branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is near: <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So ye in like manner, when ye shall see these things come to pass, know that it is nigh, <em>even</em> at the doors. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not pass, till all these things be done. <a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away. <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But of that day and <em>that</em> hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father. <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Take ye heed, watch and pray: for ye know not when the time is. <a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> <em>For the Son of man is</em> as a man taking a far journey, who left his house, and gave authority to his servants, and to every man his work, and commanded the porter to watch. <a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the master of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in the morning: <a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. <a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch.

</body>
</html>