<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In those days the multitude being very great, and having nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples <em>unto him</em>, and saith unto them, <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now been with me three days, and have nothing to eat: <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And if I send them away fasting to their own houses, they will faint by the way: for divers of them came from far. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And his disciples answered him, From whence can a man satisfy these <em>men</em> with bread here in the wilderness? <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he asked them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground: and he took the seven loaves, and gave thanks, and brake, and gave to his disciples to set before <em>them</em>; and they did set <em>them</em> before the people. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they had a few small fishes: and he blessed, and commanded to set them also before <em>them</em>. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So they did eat, and were filled: and they took up of the broken <em>meat</em> that was left seven baskets. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they that had eaten were about four thousand: and he sent them away. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And straightway he entered into a ship with his disciples, and came into the parts of Dalmanutha. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Pharisees came forth, and began to question with him, seeking of him a sign from heaven, tempting him. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and saith, Why doth this generation seek after a sign? verily I say unto you, There shall no sign be given unto this generation. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he left them, and entering into the ship again departed to the other side. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now <em>the disciples</em> had forgotten to take bread, neither had they in the ship with them more than one loaf. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and <em>of</em> the leaven of Herod. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they reasoned among themselves, saying, <em>It is</em> because we have no bread. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when Jesus knew <em>it</em>, he saith unto them, Why reason ye, because ye have no bread? perceive ye not yet, neither understand? have ye your heart yet hardened? <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Having eyes, see ye not? and having ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember? <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> When I brake the five loaves among five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up? They say unto him, Twelve. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when the seven among four thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up? And they said, Seven. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand? <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he cometh to Bethsaida; and they bring a blind man unto him, and besought him to touch him. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the town; and when he had spit on his eyes, and put his hands upon him, he asked him if he saw ought. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees, walking. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> After that he put <em>his</em> hands again upon his eyes, and made him look up: and he was restored, and saw every man clearly. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell <em>it</em> to any in the town. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Jesus went out, and his disciples, into the towns of Caesarea Philippi: and by the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them, Whom do men say that I am? <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they answered, John the Baptist: but some <em>say</em>, Elias; and others, One of the prophets. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Peter answereth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he charged them that they should tell no man of him. <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders, and <em>of</em> the chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he spake that saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to rebuke him. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But when he had turned about and looked on his disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Get thee behind me, Satan: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but the things that be of men. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And when he had called the people <em>unto him</em> with his disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.

</body>
</html>