<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there which had a withered hand. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might accuse him. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, Stand forth. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he saith unto them, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill? But they held their peace. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched <em>it</em> out: and his hand was restored whole as the other. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Pharisees went forth, and straightway took counsel with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea: and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea, <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and <em>from</em> beyond Jordan; and they about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they had heard what great things he did, came unto him. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he spake to his disciples, that a small ship should wait on him because of the multitude, lest they should throng him. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he had healed many; insomuch that they pressed upon him for to touch him, as many as had plagues. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he straitly charged them that they should not make him known. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he goeth up into a mountain, and calleth <em>unto him</em> whom he would: and they came unto him. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he ordained twelve, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And to have power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out devils: <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Simon he surnamed Peter; <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And James the <em>son</em> of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and he surnamed them Boanerges, which is, The sons of thunder: <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the <em>son</em> of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite, <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him: and they went into an house. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And when his friends heard <em>of it</em>, they went out to lay hold on him: for they said, He is beside himself. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the scribes which came down from Jerusalem said, He hath Beelzebub, and by the prince of the devils casteth he out devils. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he called them <em>unto him</em>, and said unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And if Satan rise up against himself, and be divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> No man can enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he will first bind the strong man; and then he will spoil his house. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Verily I say unto you, All sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and blasphemies wherewith soever they shall blaspheme: <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation: <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Because they said, He hath an unclean spirit. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> There came then his brethren and his mother, and, standing without, sent unto him, calling him. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the multitude sat about him, and they said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren without seek for thee. <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother, or my brethren? <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he looked round about on them which sat about him, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren! <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother.

</body>
</html>