<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he began again to teach by the sea side: and there was gathered unto him a great multitude, so that he entered into a ship, and sat in the sea; and the whole multitude was by the sea on the land. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he taught them many things by parables, and said unto them in his doctrine, <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Hearken; Behold, there went out a sower to sow: <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the way side, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And some fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth; and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth: <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But when the sun was up, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit that sprang up and increased; and brought forth, some thirty, and some sixty, and some an hundred. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said unto them, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked of him the parable. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all <em>these</em> things are done in parables: <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> That seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest at any time they should be converted, and <em>their</em> sins should be forgiven them. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he said unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how then will ye know all parables? <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sower soweth the word. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; but when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately, and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And these are they likewise which are sown on stony ground; who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness; <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time: afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth for the word's sake, immediately they are offended. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And these are they which are sown among thorns; such as hear the word, <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And these are they which are sown on good ground; such as hear the word, and receive <em>it</em>, and bring forth fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixty, and some an hundred. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said unto them, Is a candle brought to be put under a bushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a candlestick? <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For there is nothing hid, which shall not be manifested; neither was any thing kept secret, but that it should come abroad. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If any man have ears to hear, let him hear. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you: and unto you that hear shall more be given. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he hath. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into the ground; <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And should sleep, and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up, he knoweth not how. <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear. <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth in the sickle, because the harvest is come. <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? or with what comparison shall we compare it? <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> <em>It is</em> like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds that be in the earth: <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But when it is sown, it groweth up, and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out great branches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of it. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as they were able to hear <em>it</em>. <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But without a parable spake he not unto them: and when they were alone, he expounded all things to his disciples. <a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side. <a id="c4_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships. <a id="c4_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full. <a id="c4_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? <a id="c4_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. <a id="c4_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith? <a id="c4_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?

</body>
</html>