<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> John did baptize in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And John was clothed with camel's hair, and with a girdle of a skin about his loins; and he did eat locusts and wild honey; <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him: <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And there came a voice from heaven, <em>saying</em>, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And immediately the Spirit driveth him into the wilderness. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan; and was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe the gospel. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And straightway they forsook their nets, and followed him. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when he had gone a little further thence, he saw James the <em>son</em> of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship mending their nets. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And straightway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they went into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day he entered into the synagogue, and taught. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they were astonished at his doctrine: for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out, <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Saying, Let <em>us</em> alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when the unclean spirit had torn him, and cried with a loud voice, he came out of him. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What thing is this? what new doctrine <em>is</em> this? for with authority commandeth he even the unclean spirits, and they do obey him. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the region round about Galilee. <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever, and anon they tell him of her. <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he came and took her by the hand, and lifted her up; and immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto them. <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with devils. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And all the city was gathered together at the door. <a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he healed many that were sick of divers diseases, and cast out many devils; and suffered not the devils to speak, because they knew him. <a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed. <a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Simon and they that were with him followed after him. <a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And when they had found him, they said unto him, All <em>men</em> seek for thee. <a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also: for therefore came I forth. <a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and cast out devils. <a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. <a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth <em>his</em> hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou clean. <a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed. <a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he straitly charged him, and forthwith sent him away; <a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. <a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But he went out, and began to publish <em>it</em> much, and to blaze abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter.

</body>
</html>