<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And straightway in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council, and bound Jesus, and carried <em>him</em> away, and delivered <em>him</em> to Pilate. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answering said unto him, Thou sayest <em>it</em>. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the chief priests accused him of many things: but he answered nothing. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing? behold how many things they witness against thee. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But Jesus yet answered nothing; so that Pilate marvelled. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now at <em>that</em> feast he released unto them one prisoner, whomsoever they desired. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And there was <em>one</em> named Barabbas, <em>which lay</em> bound with them that had made insurrection with him, who had committed murder in the insurrection. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the multitude crying aloud began to desire <em>him to do</em> as he had ever done unto them. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the King of the Jews? <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he knew that the chief priests had delivered him for envy. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the chief priests moved the people, that he should rather release Barabbas unto them. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What will ye then that I shall do <em>unto him</em> whom ye call the King of the Jews? <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they cried out again, Crucify him. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? And they cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify him. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And <em>so</em> Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them, and delivered Jesus, when he had scourged <em>him</em>, to be crucified. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetorium; and they call together the whole band. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they clothed him with purple, and platted a crown of thorns, and put it about his <em>head</em>, <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews! <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they smote him on the head with a reed, and did spit upon him, and bowing <em>their</em> knees worshipped him. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple from him, and put his own clothes on him, and led him out to crucify him. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they compel one Simon a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming out of the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, The place of a skull. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh: but he received <em>it</em> not. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots upon them, what every man should take. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And it was the third hour, and they crucified him. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the superscription of his accusation was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And with him they crucify two thieves; the one on his right hand, and the other on his left. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, And he was numbered with the transgressors. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest <em>it</em> in three days, <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Save thyself, and come down from the cross. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Likewise also the chief priests mocking said among themselves with the scribes, He saved others; himself he cannot save. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let Christ the King of Israel descend now from the cross, that we may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reviled him. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And some of them that stood by, when they heard <em>it</em>, said, Behold, he calleth Elias. <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And one ran and filled a spunge full of vinegar, and put <em>it</em> on a reed, and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone; let us see whether Elias will come to take him down. <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost. <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when the centurion, which stood over against him, saw that he so cried out, and gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God. <a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> There were also women looking on afar off: among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, and Salome; <a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> (Who also, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and ministered unto him;) and many other women which came up with him unto Jerusalem. <a id="c15_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And now when the even was come, because it was the preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath, <a id="c15_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Joseph of Arimathaea, an honourable counsellor, which also waited for the kingdom of God, came, and went in boldly unto Pilate, and craved the body of Jesus. <a id="c15_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead: and calling <em>unto him</em> the centurion, he asked him whether he had been any while dead. <a id="c15_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And when he knew <em>it</em> of the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph. <a id="c15_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And he bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrapped him in the linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock, and rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre. <a id="c15_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And Mary Magdalene and Mary <em>the mother</em> of Joses beheld where he was laid.

</body>
</html>