<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 21</h2>

<a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he looked up, and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than they all: <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For all these have of their abundance cast in unto the offerings of God: but she of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, he said, <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> <em>As for</em> these things which ye behold, the days will come, in the which there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these things be? and what sign <em>will there be</em> when these things shall come to pass? <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many shall come in my name, saying, I am <em>Christ</em>; and the time draweth near: go ye not therefore after them. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified: for these things must first come to pass; but the end <em>is</em> not by and by. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And great earthquakes shall be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute <em>you</em>, delivering <em>you</em> up to the synagogues, and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it shall turn to you for a testimony. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Settle <em>it</em> therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye shall answer: <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends; and <em>some</em> of you shall they cause to be put to death. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And ye shall be hated of all <em>men</em> for my name's sake. <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But there shall not an hair of your head perish. <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In your patience possess ye your souls. <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then let them which are in Judaea flee to the mountains; and let them which are in the midst of it depart out; and let not them that are in the countries enter thereinto. <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck, in those days! for there shall be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring; <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh. <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he spake to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all the trees; <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your own selves that summer is now nigh at hand. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled. <a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away. <a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and <em>so</em> that day come upon you unawares. <a id="c21_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth. <a id="c21_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man. <a id="c21_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And in the day time he was teaching in the temple; and at night he went out, and abode in the mount that is called <em>the mount</em> of Olives. <a id="c21_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple, for to hear him.

</body>
</html>