<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> There were present at that season some that told him of the Galilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because they suffered such things? <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slew them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem? <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He spake also this parable; A certain <em>man</em> had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground? <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung <em>it</em>: <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And if it bear fruit, <em>well</em>: and if not, <em>then</em> after that thou shalt cut it down. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up <em>herself</em>. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when Jesus saw her, he called <em>her to him</em>, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he laid <em>his</em> hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The Lord then answered him, and said, <em>Thou</em> hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or <em>his</em> ass from the stall, and lead <em>him</em> away to watering? <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day? <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? and whereunto shall I resemble it? <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and cast into his garden; and it grew, and waxed a great tree; and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God? <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Strive to enter in at the strait gate: for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us; and he shall answer and say unto you, I know you not whence ye are: <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me, all <em>ye</em> workers of iniquity. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and you <em>yourselves</em> thrust out. <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they shall come from the east, and <em>from</em> the west, and from the north, and <em>from</em> the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And, behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last. <a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying unto him, Get thee out, and depart hence: for Herod will kill thee. <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he said unto them, Go ye, and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and I do cures to day and to morrow, and the third <em>day</em> I shall be perfected. <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Nevertheless I must walk to day, and to morrow, and the <em>day</em> following: for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. <a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen <em>doth gather</em> her brood under <em>her</em> wings, and ye would not! <a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until <em>the time</em> come when ye shall say, Blessed <em>is</em> he that cometh in the name of the Lord.

</body>
</html>