<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 18</h2>

<a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he spake a parable unto them <em>to this end</em>, that men ought always to pray, and not to faint; <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others: <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men <em>are</em>, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as <em>his</em> eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I tell you, this man went down to his house justified <em>rather</em> than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them: but when <em>his</em> disciples saw <em>it</em>, they rebuked them. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Jesus called them <em>unto him</em>, and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? none <em>is</em> good, save one, <em>that is</em>, God. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honour thy father and thy mother. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said, All these have I kept from my youth up. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful: for he was very rich. <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God! <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they that heard <em>it</em> said, Who then can be saved? <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God. <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then Peter said, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee. <a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God's sake, <a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting. <a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then he took <em>unto him</em> the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished. <a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on: <a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they shall scourge <em>him</em>, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise again. <a id="c18_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And they understood none of these things: and this saying was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken. <a id="c18_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way side begging: <a id="c18_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant. <a id="c18_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by. <a id="c18_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he cried, saying, Jesus, <em>thou</em> Son of David, have mercy on me. <a id="c18_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried so much the more, <em>Thou</em> Son of David, have mercy on me. <a id="c18_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be brought unto him: and when he was come near, he asked him, <a id="c18_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Saying, What wilt thou that I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight. <a id="c18_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved thee. <a id="c18_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And immediately he received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw <em>it</em>, gave praise unto God.

</body>
</html>