<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And a certain centurion's servant, who was dear unto him, was sick, and ready to die. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying, That he was worthy for whom he should do this: <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he loveth our nation, and he hath built us a synagogue. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof: <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee: but say in a word, and my servant shall be healed. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth <em>it</em>. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him, and turned him about, and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they that were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole that had been sick. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass the day after, that he went into a city called Nain; and many of his disciples went with him, and much people. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow: and much people of the city was with her. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare <em>him</em> stood still. And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judaea, and throughout all the region round about. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the disciples of John shewed him of all these things. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And John calling <em>unto him</em> two of his disciples sent <em>them</em> to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another? <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another? <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And in that same hour he cured many of <em>their</em> infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto many <em>that were</em> blind he gave sight. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And blessed is <em>he</em>, whosoever shall not be offended in me. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness for to see? A reed shaken with the wind? <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they which are gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> This is <em>he</em>, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And all the people that heard <em>him</em>, and the publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves, being not baptized of him. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? and to what are they like? <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> They are like unto children sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, and saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned to you, and ye have not wept. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a devil. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The Son of man is come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold a gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners! <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But wisdom is justified of all her children. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house, and sat down to meat. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that <em>Jesus</em> sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment, <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And stood at his feet behind <em>him</em> weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe <em>them</em> with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed <em>them</em> with the ointment. <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw <em>it</em>, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman <em>this is</em> that toucheth him: for she is a sinner. <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he saith, Master, say on. <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty. <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most? <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Simon answered and said, I suppose that <em>he</em>, to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped <em>them</em> with the hairs of her head. <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came in hath not ceased to kiss my feet. <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment. <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, <em>the same</em> loveth little. <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven. <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And they that sat at meat with him began to say within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also? <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.

</body>
</html>