<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 24</h2>

<a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now upon the first <em>day</em> of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain <em>others</em> with them. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments: <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And as they were afraid, and bowed down <em>their</em> faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they remembered his words, <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> It was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary <em>the mother</em> of James, and other <em>women that were</em> with them, which told these things unto the apostles. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem <em>about</em> threescore furlongs. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they talked together of all these things which had happened. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass, that, while they communed <em>together</em> and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said unto them, What manner of communications <em>are</em> these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad? <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people: <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre; <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found <em>it</em> even so as the women had said: but him they saw not. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken: <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory? <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. <a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as though he would have gone further. <a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. <a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed <em>it</em>, and brake, and gave to them. <a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. <a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? <a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, <a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. <a id="c24_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they told what things <em>were done</em> in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. <a id="c24_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace <em>be</em> unto you. <a id="c24_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. <a id="c24_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts? <a id="c24_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have. <a id="c24_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them <em>his</em> hands and <em>his</em> feet. <a id="c24_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? <a id="c24_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb. <a id="c24_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he took <em>it</em>, and did eat before them. <a id="c24_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he said unto them, These <em>are</em> the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and <em>in</em> the prophets, and <em>in</em> the psalms, concerning me. <a id="c24_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures, <a id="c24_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day: <a id="c24_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. <a id="c24_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And ye are witnesses of these things. <a id="c24_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high. <a id="c24_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. <a id="c24_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven. <a id="c24_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: <a id="c24_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.

</body>
</html>