<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 22</h2>

<a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him; for they feared the people. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he went his way, and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he promised, and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the passover must be killed. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare us the passover, that we may eat. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare? <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he said unto them, Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he entereth in. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith unto thee, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples? <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer: <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, and divide <em>it</em> among yourselves: <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake <em>it</em>, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup <em>is</em> the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But, behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me <em>is</em> with me on the table. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And truly the Son of man goeth, as it was determined: but woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed! <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they began to enquire among themselves, which of them it was that should do this thing. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But ye <em>shall</em> not <em>be</em> so: but he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For whether <em>is</em> greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? <em>is</em> not he that sitteth at meat? but I am among you as he that serveth. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me; <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired <em>to have</em> you, that he may sift <em>you</em> as wheat: <a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. <a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both into prison, and to death. <a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me. <a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse, and scrip, and shoes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing. <a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then said he unto them, But now, he that hath a purse, let him take <em>it</em>, and likewise <em>his</em> scrip: and he that hath no sword, let him sell his garment, and buy one. <a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For I say unto you, that this that is written must yet be accomplished in me, And he was reckoned among the transgressors: for the things concerning me have an end. <a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And they said, Lord, behold, here <em>are</em> two swords. And he said unto them, It is enough. <a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he came out, and went, as he was wont, to the mount of Olives; and his disciples also followed him. <a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation. <a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down, and prayed, <a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done. <a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him. <a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground. <a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And when he rose up from prayer, and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow, <a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And said unto them, Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. <a id="c22_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss him. <a id="c22_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss? <a id="c22_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> When they which were about him saw what would follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword? <a id="c22_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And one of them smote the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. <a id="c22_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And Jesus answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touched his ear, and healed him. <a id="c22_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Then Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the temple, and the elders, which were come to him, Be ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and staves? <a id="c22_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me: but this is your hour, and the power of darkness. <a id="c22_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Then took they him, and led <em>him</em>, and brought him into the high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off. <a id="c22_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were set down together, Peter sat down among them. <a id="c22_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him. <a id="c22_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not. <a id="c22_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not. <a id="c22_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And about the space of one hour after another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this <em>fellow</em> also was with him: for he is a Galilaean. <a id="c22_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew. <a id="c22_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. <a id="c22_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> And Peter went out, and wept bitterly. <a id="c22_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> And the men that held Jesus mocked him, and smote <em>him</em>. <a id="c22_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee? <a id="c22_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> And many other things blasphemously spake they against him. <a id="c22_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief priests and the scribes came together, and led him into their council, saying, <a id="c22_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Art thou the Christ? tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe: <a id="c22_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> And if I also ask <em>you</em>, ye will not answer me, nor let <em>me</em> go. <a id="c22_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of the power of God. <a id="c22_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am. <a id="c22_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> And they said, What need we any further witness? for we ourselves have heard of his own mouth.

</body>
</html>