<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 16</h2>

<a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man, which had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he called him, and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? give an account of thy stewardship; for thou mayest be no longer steward. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? for my lord taketh away from me the stewardship: I cannot dig; to beg I am ashamed. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So he called every one of his lord's debtors <em>unto him</em>, and said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my lord? <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said, An hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, An hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and write fourscore. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely: for the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much: and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true <em>riches</em>? <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give you that which is your own? <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> No servant can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things: and they derided him. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves before men; but God knoweth your hearts: for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The law and the prophets <em>were</em> until John: since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and whosoever marrieth her that is put away from <em>her</em> husband committeth adultery. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day: <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores, <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried; <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that <em>would come</em> from thence. <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house: <a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment. <a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them. <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. <a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.

</body>
</html>