<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituraea and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he came into all the country about Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins; <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As it is written in the book of the words of Esaias the prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough ways <em>shall be</em> made smooth; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And all flesh shall see the salvation of God. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to <em>our</em> father: for I say unto you, That God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: every tree therefore which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then? <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him, Master, what shall we do? <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse <em>any</em> falsely; and be content with your wages. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in their hearts of John, whether he were the Christ, or not; <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> John answered, saying unto <em>them</em> all, I indeed baptize you with water; but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire: <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whose fan <em>is</em> in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done, <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened, <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as was supposed) the son of Joseph, which was <em>the son</em> of Heli, <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Matthat, which was <em>the son</em> of Levi, which was <em>the son</em> of Melchi, which was <em>the son</em> of Janna, which was <em>the son</em> of Joseph, <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Mattathias, which was <em>the son</em> of Amos, which was <em>the son</em> of Naum, which was <em>the son</em> of Esli, which was <em>the son</em> of Nagge, <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Maath, which was <em>the son</em> of Mattathias, which was <em>the son</em> of Semei, which was <em>the son</em> of Joseph, which was <em>the son</em> of Juda, <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Joanna, which was <em>the son</em> of Rhesa, which was <em>the son</em> of Zorobabel, which was <em>the son</em> of Salathiel, which was <em>the son</em> of Neri, <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Melchi, which was <em>the son</em> of Addi, which was <em>the son</em> of Cosam, which was <em>the son</em> of Elmodam, which was <em>the son</em> of Er, <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Jose, which was <em>the son</em> of Eliezer, which was <em>the son</em> of Jorim, which was <em>the son</em> of Matthat, which was <em>the son</em> of Levi, <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Simeon, which was <em>the son</em> of Juda, which was <em>the son</em> of Joseph, which was <em>the son</em> of Jonan, which was <em>the son</em> of Eliakim, <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Melea, which was <em>the son</em> of Menan, which was <em>the son</em> of Mattatha, which was <em>the son</em> of Nathan, which was <em>the son</em> of David, <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Jesse, which was <em>the son</em> of Obed, which was <em>the son</em> of Booz, which was <em>the son</em> of Salmon, which was <em>the son</em> of Naasson, <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Aminadab, which was <em>the son</em> of Aram, which was <em>the son</em> of Esrom, which was <em>the son</em> of Phares, which was <em>the son</em> of Juda, <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Jacob, which was <em>the son</em> of Isaac, which was <em>the son</em> of Abraham, which was <em>the son</em> of Thara, which was <em>the son</em> of Nachor, <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Saruch, which was <em>the son</em> of Ragau, which was <em>the son</em> of Phalec, which was <em>the son</em> of Heber, which was <em>the son</em> of Sala, <a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Cainan, which was <em>the son</em> of Arphaxad, which was <em>the son</em> of Sem, which was <em>the son</em> of Noe, which was <em>the son</em> of Lamech, <a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Mathusala, which was <em>the son</em> of Enoch, which was <em>the son</em> of Jared, which was <em>the son</em> of Maleleel, which was <em>the son</em> of Cainan, <a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Which was <em>the son</em> of Enos, which was <em>the son</em> of Seth, which was <em>the son</em> of Adam, which was <em>the son</em> of God.

</body>
</html>