<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 23</h2>

<a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this <em>fellow</em> perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ a King. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered him and said, Thou sayest <em>it</em>. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then said Pilate to the chief priests and <em>to</em> the people, I find no fault in this man. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was desirous to see him of a long <em>season</em>, because he had heard many things of him; and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him. <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then he questioned with him in many words; but he answered him nothing. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Herod with his men of war set him at nought, and mocked <em>him</em>, and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together: for before they were at enmity between themselves. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Said unto them, Ye have brought this man unto me, as one that perverteth the people: and, behold, I, having examined <em>him</em> before you, have found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse him: <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> No, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will therefore chastise him, and release <em>him</em>. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> (For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.) <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this <em>man</em>, and release unto us Barabbas: <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> (Who for a certain sedition made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison.) <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Pilate therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But they cried, saying, Crucify <em>him</em>, crucify him. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath he done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let <em>him</em> go. <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed. <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder was cast into prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus to their will. <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian, coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross, that he might bear <em>it</em> after Jesus. <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And there followed him a great company of people, and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say, Blessed <em>are</em> the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the paps which never gave suck. <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry? <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And there were also two other, malefactors, led with him to be put to death. <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots. <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided <em>him</em>, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God. <a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offering him vinegar, <a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. <a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. <a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us. <a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? <a id="c23_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss. <a id="c23_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. <a id="c23_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt thou be with me in paradise. <a id="c23_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour. <a id="c23_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst. <a id="c23_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the ghost. <a id="c23_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. <a id="c23_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And all the people that came together to that sight, beholding the things which were done, smote their breasts, and returned. <a id="c23_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him from Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things. <a id="c23_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And, behold, <em>there was</em> a man named Joseph, a counsellor; <em>and he was</em> a good man, and a just: <a id="c23_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> (The same had not consented to the counsel and deed of them;) <em>he was</em> of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews: who also himself waited for the kingdom of God. <a id="c23_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> This <em>man</em> went unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus. <a id="c23_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid. <a id="c23_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And that day was the preparation, and the sabbath drew on. <a id="c23_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And the women also, which came with him from Galilee, followed after, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was laid. <a id="c23_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; and rested the sabbath day according to the commandment.

</body>
</html>