<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness, <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Being forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing: and when they were ended, he afterward hungered. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command this stone that it be made bread. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, shewed unto him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the devil said unto him, All this power will I give thee, and the glory of them: for that is delivered unto me; and to whomsoever I will I give it. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down from hence: <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For it is written, He shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee: <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And in <em>their</em> hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and there went out a fame of him through all the region round about. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for to read. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written, <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Spirit of the Lord <em>is</em> upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> To preach the acceptable year of the Lord. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he closed the book, and he gave <em>it</em> again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And all bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son? <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he said, Verily I say unto you, No prophet is accepted in his own country. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But I tell you of a truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land; <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But unto none of them was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, <em>a city</em> of Sidon, unto a woman <em>that was</em> a widow. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Eliseus the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian. <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath, <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And rose up, and thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong. <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But he passing through the midst of them went his way, <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath days. <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was with power. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a spirit of an unclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice, <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Saying, Let <em>us</em> alone; what have we to do with thee, <em>thou</em> Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God. <a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him, and hurt him not. <a id="c4_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And they were all amazed, and spake among themselves, saying, What a word <em>is</em> this! for with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out. <a id="c4_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the fame of him went out into every place of the country round about. <a id="c4_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever; and they besought him for her. <a id="c4_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her: and immediately she arose and ministered unto them. <a id="c4_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with divers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them. <a id="c4_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God. And he rebuking <em>them</em> suffered them not to speak: for they knew that he was Christ. <a id="c4_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place: and the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he should not depart from them. <a id="c4_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also: for therefore am I sent. <a id="c4_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.

</body>
</html>