<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, that, as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret, <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And saw two ships standing by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing <em>their</em> nets. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he sat down, and taught the people out of the ship. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Simon answering said unto him, Master, we have toiled all the night, and have taken nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when they had this done, they inclosed a great multitude of fishes: and their net brake. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they beckoned unto <em>their</em> partners, which were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When Simon Peter saw <em>it</em>, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he was astonished, and all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which they had taken: <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And so <em>was</em> also James, and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all, and followed him. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it came to pass, when he was in a certain city, behold a man full of leprosy: who seeing Jesus fell on <em>his</em> face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he put forth <em>his</em> hand, and touched him, saying, I will: be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he charged him to tell no man: but go, and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him: and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he withdrew himself into the wilderness, and prayed. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was <em>present</em> to heal them. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And, behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a palsy: and they sought <em>means</em> to bring him in, and to lay <em>him</em> before him. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when they could not find by what <em>way</em> they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went upon the housetop, and let him down through the tiling with <em>his</em> couch into the midst before Jesus. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone? <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said unto them, What reason ye in your hearts? <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk? <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power upon earth to forgive sins, (he said unto the sick of the palsy,) I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go into thine house. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And immediately he rose up before them, and took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things to day. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow me. <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he left all, rose up, and followed him. <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them. <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners? <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician; but they that are sick. <a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. <a id="c5_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast often, and make prayers, and likewise <em>the disciples</em> of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink? <a id="c5_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he said unto them, Can ye make the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? <a id="c5_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days. <a id="c5_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he spake also a parable unto them; No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon an old; if otherwise, then both the new maketh a rent, and the piece that was <em>taken</em> out of the new agreeth not with the old. <a id="c5_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new wine will burst the bottles, and be spilled, and the bottles shall perish. <a id="c5_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But new wine must be put into new bottles; and both are preserved. <a id="c5_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> No man also having drunk old <em>wine</em> straightway desireth new: for he saith, The old is better.

</body>
</html>