<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 17</h2>

<a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible but that offences will come: but woe <em>unto him</em>, through whom they come! <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Take heed to yourselves: If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt forgive him. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the apostles said unto the Lord, Increase our faith. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle, will say unto him by and by, when he is come from the field, Go and sit down to meat? <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink? <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our duty to do. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off: <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they lifted up <em>their</em> voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when he saw <em>them</em>, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God, <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And fell down on <em>his</em> face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? but where <em>are</em> the nine? <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger. <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole. <a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation: <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you. <a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he said unto the disciples, The days will come, when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye shall not see <em>it</em>. <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they shall say to you, See here; or, see there: go not after <em>them</em>, nor follow <em>them</em>. <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For as the lightning, that lighteneth out of the one <em>part</em> under heaven, shineth unto the other <em>part</em> under heaven; so shall also the Son of man be in his day. <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of this generation. <a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man. <a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed them all. <a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded; <a id="c17_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed <em>them</em> all. <a id="c17_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed. <a id="c17_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> In that day, he which shall be upon the housetop, and his stuff in the house, let him not come down to take it away: and he that is in the field, let him likewise not return back. <a id="c17_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Remember Lot's wife. <a id="c17_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it. <a id="c17_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I tell you, in that night there shall be two <em>men</em> in one bed; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left. <a id="c17_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Two <em>women</em> shall be grinding together; the one shall be taken, and the other left. <a id="c17_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Two <em>men</em> shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other left. <a id="c17_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Wheresoever the body <em>is</em>, thither will the eagles be gathered together.

</body>
</html>