<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he spake this parable unto them, saying, <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it? <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he hath found <em>it</em>, he layeth <em>it</em> on his shoulders, rejoicing. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when he cometh home, he calleth together <em>his</em> friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find <em>it</em>? <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when she hath found <em>it</em>, she calleth <em>her</em> friends and <em>her</em> neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I had lost. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said, A certain man had two sons: <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the younger of them said to <em>his</em> father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth <em>to me</em>. And he divided unto them <em>his</em> living. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put <em>it</em> on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on <em>his</em> feet: <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill <em>it</em>; and let us eat, and be merry: <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard musick and dancing. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he was angry, and would not go in: therefore came his father out, and intreated him. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he answering said to <em>his</em> father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends: <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.

</body>
</html>