<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 20</h2>

<a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, <em>that</em> on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple, and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon <em>him</em> with the elders, <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? or who is he that gave thee this authority? <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one thing; and answer me: <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why then believed ye him not? <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But and if we say, Of men; all the people will stone us: for they be persuaded that John was a prophet. <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they answered, that they could not tell whence <em>it was</em>. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then began he to speak to the people this parable; A certain man planted a vineyard, and let it forth to husbandmen, and went into a far country for a long time. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And at the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that they should give him of the fruit of the vineyard: but the husbandmen beat him, and sent <em>him</em> away empty. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And again he sent another servant: and they beat him also, and entreated <em>him</em> shamefully, and sent <em>him</em> away empty. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And again he sent a third: and they wounded him also, and cast <em>him</em> out. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then said the lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son: it may be they will reverence <em>him</em> when they see him. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, This is the heir: come, let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So they cast him out of the vineyard, and killed <em>him</em>. What therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them? <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard to others. And when they heard <em>it</em>, they said, God forbid. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he beheld them, and said, What is this then that is written, The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner? <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder. <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the chief priests and the scribes the same hour sought to lay hands on him; and they feared the people: for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them. <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they watched <em>him</em>, and sent forth spies, which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, that so they might deliver him unto the power and authority of the governor. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person <em>of any</em>, but teachest the way of God truly: <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Caesar, or no? <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he perceived their craftiness, and said unto them, Why tempt ye me? <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shew me a penny. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered and said, Caesar's. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they could not take hold of his words before the people: and they marvelled at his answer, and held their peace. <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then came to <em>him</em> certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection; and they asked him, <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, If any man's brother die, having a wife, and he die without children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> There were therefore seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and died without children. <a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the second took her to wife, and he died childless. <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the third took her; and in like manner the seven also: and they left no children, and died. <a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Last of all the woman died also. <a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Therefore in the resurrection whose wife of them is she? for seven had her to wife. <a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jesus answering said unto them, The children of this world marry, and are given in marriage: <a id="c20_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage: <a id="c20_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Neither can they die any more: for they are equal unto the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection. <a id="c20_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Now that the dead are raised, even Moses shewed at the bush, when he calleth the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. <a id="c20_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living: for all live unto him. <a id="c20_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast well said. <a id="c20_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And after that they durst not ask him any <em>question at all</em>. <a id="c20_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David's son? <a id="c20_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And David himself saith in the book of Psalms, The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, <a id="c20_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Till I make thine enemies thy footstool. <a id="c20_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> David therefore calleth him Lord, how is he then his son? <a id="c20_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his disciples, <a id="c20_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms at feasts; <a id="c20_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Which devour widows' houses, and for a shew make long prayers: the same shall receive greater damnation.

</body>
</html>