<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 20</h2>

<a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The first <em>day</em> of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So they ran both together: and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre. <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he stooping down, <em>and looking in</em>, saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in. <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie, <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then the disciples went away again unto their own home. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she wept, she stooped down, <em>and looked</em> into the sepulchre, <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith unto him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and <em>to</em> my God, and your God. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and <em>that</em> he had spoken these things unto her. <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then the same day at evening, being the first <em>day</em> of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace <em>be</em> unto you. <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he had so said, he shewed unto them <em>his</em> hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the Lord. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then said Jesus to them again, Peace <em>be</em> unto you: as <em>my</em> Father hath sent me, even so send I you. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when he had said this, he breathed on <em>them</em>, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost: <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; <em>and</em> whose soever <em>sins</em> ye retain, they are retained. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the Lord. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them: <em>then</em> came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace <em>be</em> unto you. <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust <em>it</em> into my side: and be not faithless, but believing. <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed <em>are</em> they that have not seen, and <em>yet</em> have believed. <a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book: <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name.

</body>
</html>