<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 17</h2>

<a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee: <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and they have kept thy word. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me; and they have received <em>them</em>, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we <em>are</em>. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And now come I to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth. <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth. <a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word; <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> That they all may be one; as thou, Father, <em>art</em> in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. <a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them; that they may be one, even as we are one: <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one; and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me. <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world. <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. <a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare <em>it</em>: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them.

</body>
</html>