<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there: <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do <em>it</em>. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bare <em>it</em>. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom, <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine; and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse: <em>but</em> thou hast kept the good wine until now. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: and they continued there not many days. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the Jews' passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem, <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting: <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen; and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables; <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence; make not my Father's house an house of merchandise. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things? <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days? <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But he spake of the temple of his body. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them; and they believed the scripture, and the word which Jesus had said. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover, in the feast <em>day</em>, many believed in his name, when they saw the miracles which he did. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he knew all <em>men</em>, <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And needed not that any should testify of man: for he knew what was in man.

</body>
</html>