<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this there was a feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep <em>market</em> a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and eight years. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time <em>in that case</em>, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked: and on the same day was the sabbath. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day: it is not lawful for thee to carry <em>thy</em> bed. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then asked they him, What man is that which said unto thee, Take up thy bed, and walk? <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he that was healed wist not who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in <em>that</em> place. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus, which had made him whole. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath day. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth <em>them</em>; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son: <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> That all <em>men</em> should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself; <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man. <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation. <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me. <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. <a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> There is another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true. <a id="c5_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth. <a id="c5_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say, that ye might be saved. <a id="c5_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light. <a id="c5_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But I have greater witness than <em>that</em> of John: for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me. <a id="c5_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape. <a id="c5_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye believe not. <a id="c5_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me. <a id="c5_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life. <a id="c5_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> I receive not honour from men. <a id="c5_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you. <a id="c5_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive. <a id="c5_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> How can ye believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that <em>cometh</em> from God only? <a id="c5_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is <em>one</em> that accuseth you, <em>even</em> Moses, in whom ye trust. <a id="c5_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for he wrote of me. <a id="c5_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?

</body>
</html>