<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 16</h2>

<a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be offended. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the Father, nor me. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But these things have I told you, that when the time shall come, ye may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now I go my way to him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou? <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But because I have said these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Of sin, because they believe not on me; <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see me no more; <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, <em>that</em> shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew <em>it</em> unto you. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he shall take of mine, and shall shew <em>it</em> unto you. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me, because I go to the Father. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then said <em>some</em> of his disciples among themselves, What is this that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I go to the Father? <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? we cannot tell what he saith. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto them, Do ye enquire among yourselves of that I said, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me? <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And ye now therefore have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give <em>it</em> you. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs: but the time cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall shew you plainly of the Father. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> At that day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you: <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God. <a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go to the Father. <a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> His disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no proverb. <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that thou camest forth from God. <a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe? <a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. <a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.

</body>
</html>