<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And as <em>Jesus</em> passed by, he saw a man which was blind from <em>his</em> birth. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind? <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay, <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came seeing. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged? <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Some said, This is he: others <em>said</em>, He is like him: <em>but</em> he said, I am <em>he</em>. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened? <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash: and I went and washed, and I received sight. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophet. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now see? <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind: <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him: he shall speak for himself. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> These <em>words</em> spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise: we know that this man is a sinner. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner <em>or no</em>, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he thine eyes? <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear: wherefore would ye hear <em>it</em> again? will ye also be his disciples? <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are Moses' disciples. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> We know that God spake unto Moses: <em>as for</em> this <em>fellow</em>, we know not from whence he is. <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvellous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and <em>yet</em> he hath opened mine eyes. <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If this man were not of God, he could do nothing. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? <a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? <a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee. <a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. <a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind. <a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And <em>some</em> of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words, and said unto him, Are we blind also? <a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth.

</body>
</html>