<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews: <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born? <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and <em>of</em> the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be? <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things? <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe, if I tell you <em>of</em> heavenly things? <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, <em>even</em> the Son of man which is in heaven. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up: <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judaea; and there he tarried with them, and baptized. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And John also was baptizing in Aenon near to Salim, because there was much water there: and they came, and were baptized. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For John was not yet cast into prison. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then there arose a question between <em>some</em> of John's disciples and the Jews about purifying. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all <em>men</em> come to him. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be given him from heaven. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He that hath the bride is the bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice: this my joy therefore is fulfilled. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He must increase, but I <em>must</em> decrease. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He that cometh from above is above all: he that is of the earth is earthly, and speaketh of the earth: he that cometh from heaven is above all. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth; and no man receiveth his testimony. <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God is true. <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God: for God giveth not the Spirit by measure <em>unto him</em>. <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand. <a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him.

</body>
</html>