<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 11</h2>

<a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now a certain <em>man</em> was sick, <em>named</em> Lazarus, of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (It was <em>that</em> Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.) <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When Jesus heard <em>that</em>, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he abode two days still in the same place where he was. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then after that saith he to <em>his</em> disciples, Let us go into Judaea again. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>His</em> disciples say unto him, Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee; and goest thou thither again? <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is no light in him. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> These things said he: and after that he saith unto them, Our friend Lazarus sleepeth; but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Howbeit Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that he had spoken of taking of rest in sleep. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his fellowdisciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then when Jesus came, he found that he had <em>lain</em> in the grave four days already. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off: <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him: but Mary sat <em>still</em> in the house. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give <em>it</em> thee. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this? <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And when she had so said, she went her way, and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calleth for thee. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> As soon as she heard <em>that</em>, she arose quickly, and came unto him. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in that place where Martha met him. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The Jews then which were with her in the house, and comforted her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up hastily and went out, followed her, saying, She goeth unto the grave to weep there. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled, <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see. <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jesus wept. <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him! <a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And some of them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died? <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it. <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been <em>dead</em> four days. <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God? <a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then they took away the stone <em>from the place</em> where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up <em>his</em> eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. <a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said <em>it</em>, that they may believe that thou hast sent me. <a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. <a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go. <a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things which Jesus did, believed on him. <a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> But some of them went their ways to the Pharisees, and told them what things Jesus had done. <a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a council, and said, What do we? for this man doeth many miracles. <a id="c11_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> If we let him thus alone, all <em>men</em> will believe on him: and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation. <a id="c11_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And one of them, <em>named</em> Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, <a id="c11_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Nor consider that it is expedient for us, that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. <a id="c11_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And this spake he not of himself: but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation; <a id="c11_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. <a id="c11_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put him to death. <a id="c11_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews; but went thence unto a country near to the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there continued with his disciples. <a id="c11_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And the Jews' passover was nigh at hand: and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the passover, to purify themselves. <a id="c11_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Then sought they for Jesus, and spake among themselves, as they stood in the temple, What think ye, that he will not come to the feast? <a id="c11_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment, that, if any man knew where he were, he should shew <em>it</em>, that they might take him.

</body>
</html>