<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 12</h2>

<a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> There they made him a supper; and Martha served: but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's <em>son</em>, which should betray him, <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the poor? <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This he said, not that he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put therein. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying hath she kept this. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have not always. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was there: and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death; <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna: Blessed <em>is</em> the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written, <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and <em>that</em> they had done these things unto him. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave, and raised him from the dead, bare record. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast: <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified. <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him will <em>my</em> Father honour. <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, <em>saying</em>, I have both glorified <em>it</em>, and will glorify <em>it</em> again. <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The people therefore, that stood by, and heard <em>it</em>, said that it thundered: others said, An angel spake to him. <a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes. <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out. <a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all <em>men</em> unto me. <a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> This he said, signifying what death he should die. <a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man? <a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you: for he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. <a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light. These things spake Jesus, and departed, and did hide himself from them. <a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him: <a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> That the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed? <a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Therefore they could not believe, because that Esaias said again, <a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart; that they should not see with <em>their</em> eyes, nor understand with <em>their</em> heart, and be converted, and I should heal them. <a id="c12_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of him. <a id="c12_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess <em>him</em>, lest they should be put out of the synagogue: <a id="c12_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> For they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God. <a id="c12_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me. <a id="c12_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And he that seeth me seeth him that sent me. <a id="c12_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. <a id="c12_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. <a id="c12_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day. <a id="c12_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father which sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak. <a id="c12_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And I know that his commandment is life everlasting: whatsoever I speak therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak.

</body>
</html>