<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 15</h2>

<a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away: and every <em>branch</em> that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I am the vine, ye <em>are</em> the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do nothing. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and men gather them, and cast <em>them</em> into the fire, and they are burned. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in my love. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and <em>that</em> your joy might be full. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and <em>that</em> your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> These things I command you, that ye love one another. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before <em>it hated</em> you. <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin: but now they have no cloke for their sin. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He that hateth me hateth my Father also. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I had not done among them the works which none other man did, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated both me and my Father. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But <em>this cometh to pass</em>, that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, <em>even</em> the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me: <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning.

</body>
</html>