<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the Jews' feast of tabernacles was at hand. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For <em>there is</em> no man <em>that</em> doeth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew thyself to the world. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For neither did his brethren believe in him. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come: but your time is alway ready. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Go ye up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast; for my time is not yet full come. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When he had said these words unto them, he abode <em>still</em> in Galilee. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the feast, not openly, but as it were in secret. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he? <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him: for some said, He is a good man: others said, Nay; but he deceiveth the people. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never learned? <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or <em>whether</em> I speak of myself. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Did not Moses give you the law, and <em>yet</em> none of you keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me? <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The people answered and said, Thou hast a devil: who goeth about to kill thee? <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision; (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers;) and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a man. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken; are ye angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day? <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he, whom they seek to kill? <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ? <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then they sought to take him: but no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And many of the people believed on him, and said, When Christ cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this <em>man</em> hath done? <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then said Jesus unto them, Yet a little while am I with you, and <em>then</em> I go unto him that sent me. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Ye shall seek me, and shall not find <em>me</em>: and where I am, <em>thither</em> ye cannot come. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he go, that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles? <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> What <em>manner of</em> saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find <em>me</em>: and where I am, <em>thither</em> ye cannot come? <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> In the last day, that great <em>day</em> of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink. <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> (But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet <em>given</em>; because that Jesus was not yet glorified.) <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Many of the people therefore, when they heard this saying, said, Of a truth this is the Prophet. <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come out of Galilee? <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was? <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> So there was a division among the people because of him. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid hands on him. <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees; and they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him? <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The officers answered, Never man spake like this man. <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Then answered them the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived? <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him? <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> But this people who knoweth not the law are cursed. <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Nicodemus saith unto them, (he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them,) <a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Doth our law judge <em>any</em> man, before it hear him, and know what he doeth? <a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search, and look: for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet. <a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And every man went unto his own house.

</body>
</html>