<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 14</h2>

<a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In my Father's house are many mansions: if <em>it were</em> not <em>so</em>, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, <em>there</em> ye may be also. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way? <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou <em>then</em>, Shew us the Father? <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Believe me that I <em>am</em> in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater <em>works</em> than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do <em>it</em>. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If ye love me, keep my commandments. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> <em>Even</em> the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: because I live, ye shall live also. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> At that day ye shall know that I <em>am</em> in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world? <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him. <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me. <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These things have I spoken unto you, being <em>yet</em> present with you. <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But the Comforter, <em>which is</em> the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come <em>again</em> unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father: for my Father is greater than I. <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me. <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence.

</body>
</html>