<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When therefore the Lord knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (Though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples,) <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He left Judaea, and departed again into Galilee. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he must needs go through Samaria. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with <em>his</em> journey, sat thus on the well: <em>and</em> it was about the sixth hour. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> (For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.) <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water? <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband: <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: in that saidst thou truly. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Ye worship ye know not what: we know what we worship: for salvation is of the Jews. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> God <em>is</em> a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship <em>him</em> in spirit and in truth. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am <em>he</em>. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he talked with the woman: yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest thou with her? <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men, <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ? <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then they went out of the city, and came unto him. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat. <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him <em>ought</em> to eat? <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. <a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Say not ye, There are yet four months, and <em>then</em> cometh harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for they are white already to harvest. <a id="c4_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together. <a id="c4_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth. <a id="c4_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men laboured, and ye are entered into their labours. <a id="c4_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that ever I did. <a id="c4_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them: and he abode there two days. <a id="c4_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And many more believed because of his own word; <a id="c4_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard <em>him</em> ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world. <a id="c4_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Now after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee. <a id="c4_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his own country. <a id="c4_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him, having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast. <a id="c4_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum. <a id="c4_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son: for he was at the point of death. <a id="c4_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. <a id="c4_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die. <a id="c4_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way. <a id="c4_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And as he was now going down, his servants met him, and told <em>him</em>, saying, Thy son liveth. <a id="c4_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. <a id="c4_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> So the father knew that <em>it was</em> at the same hour, in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house. <a id="c4_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> This <em>is</em> again the second miracle <em>that</em> Jesus did, when he was come out of Judaea into Galilee.

</body>
</html>