<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 21</h2>

<a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things Jesus shewed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and on this wise shewed he <em>himself</em>. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the <em>sons</em> of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship immediately; and that night they caught nothing. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girt <em>his</em> fisher's coat <em>unto him</em>, (for he was naked,) and did cast himself into the sea. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the other disciples came in a little ship; (for they were not far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits,) dragging the net with fishes. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As soon then as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now caught. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great fishes, an hundred and fifty and three: and for all there were so many, yet was not the net broken. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jesus saith unto them, Come <em>and</em> dine. And none of the disciples durst ask him, Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jesus then cometh, and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> This is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself to his disciples, after that he was risen from the dead. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, <em>son</em> of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He saith to him again the second time, Simon, <em>son</em> of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He saith unto him the third time, Simon, <em>son</em> of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep. <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdedst thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry <em>thee</em> whither thou wouldest not. <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me. <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved following; which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee? <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Peter seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what <em>shall</em> this man <em>do</em>? <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what <em>is that</em> to thee? follow thou me. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto him, He shall not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what <em>is that</em> to thee? <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> This is the disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen.

</body>
</html>