<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jesus went unto the mount of Olives. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery; and when they had set her in the midst, <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou? <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with <em>his</em> finger wrote on the ground, <em>as though he heard them not</em>. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they which heard <em>it</em>, being convicted by <em>their own</em> conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, <em>even</em> unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee? <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself; thy record is not true. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, <em>yet</em> my record is true: for I know whence I came, and whither I go; but ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I go. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And yet if I judge, my judgment is true: for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It is also written in your law, that the testimony of two men is true. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the temple: and no man laid hands on him; for his hour was not yet come. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins: whither I go, ye cannot come. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for if ye believe not that I am <em>he</em>, ye shall die in your sins. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus saith unto them, Even <em>the same</em> that I said unto you from the beginning. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I have many things to say and to judge of you: but he that sent me is true; and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They understood not that he spake to them of the Father. <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am <em>he</em>, and <em>that</em> I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> As he spake these words, many believed on him. <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, <em>then</em> are ye my disciples indeed; <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> They answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free? <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: <em>but</em> the Son abideth ever. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I know that ye are Abraham's seed; but ye seek to kill me, because my word hath no place in you. <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I speak that which I have seen with my Father: and ye do that which ye have seen with your father. <a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham. <a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God: this did not Abraham. <a id="c8_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication; we have one Father, <em>even</em> God. <a id="c8_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I proceeded forth and came from God; neither came I of myself, but he sent me. <a id="c8_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Why do ye not understand my speech? <em>even</em> because ye cannot hear my word. <a id="c8_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Ye are of <em>your</em> father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it. <a id="c8_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And because I tell <em>you</em> the truth, ye believe me not. <a id="c8_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me? <a id="c8_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> He that is of God heareth God's words: ye therefore hear <em>them</em> not, because ye are not of God. <a id="c8_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil? <a id="c8_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me. <a id="c8_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth. <a id="c8_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death. <a id="c8_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my saying, he shall never taste of death. <a id="c8_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? and the prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself? <a id="c8_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God: <a id="c8_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Yet ye have not known him; but I know him: and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you: but I know him, and keep his saying. <a id="c8_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw <em>it</em>, and was glad. <a id="c8_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? <a id="c8_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am. <a id="c8_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> Then took they up stones to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by.

</body>
</html>