<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's <em>son</em>, to betray him; <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God, and went to God; <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments; and took a towel, and girded himself. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> After that he poureth water into a bason, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe <em>them</em> with the towel wherewith he was girded. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then cometh he to Simon Peter: and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also <em>my</em> hands and <em>my</em> head. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus saith to him, He that is washed needeth not save to wash <em>his</em> feet, but is clean every whit: and ye are clean, but not all. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he knew who should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you? <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for <em>so</em> I am. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I then, <em>your</em> Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another's feet. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord; neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but that the scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now I tell you before it come, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe that I am <em>he</em>. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me. <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he should ask who it should be of whom he spake. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He then lying on Jesus' breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it? <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped <em>it</em>. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave <em>it</em> to Judas Iscariot, <em>the son</em> of Simon. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And after the sop Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest, do quickly. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto him. <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For some <em>of them</em> thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto him, Buy <em>those things</em> that we have need of against the feast; or, that he should give something to the poor. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He then having received the sop went immediately out: and it was night. <a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him. <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall straightway glorify him. <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; so now I say to you. <a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. <a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> By this shall all <em>men</em> know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another. <a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow me afterwards. <a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake. <a id="c13_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice.

</body>
</html>