<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 26</h2>

<a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretched forth the hand, and answered for himself: <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I think myself happy, king Agrippa, because I shall answer for myself this day before thee touching all the things whereof I am accused of the Jews: <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Especially <em>because I know</em> thee to be expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews: wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently. <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first among mine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews; <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Which knew me from the beginning, if they would testify, that after the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made of God unto our fathers: <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Unto which <em>promise</em> our twelve tribes, instantly serving <em>God</em> day and night, hope to come. For which hope's sake, king Agrippa, I am accused of the Jews. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should raise the dead? <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I verily thought with myself, that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against <em>them</em>. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I punished them oft in every synagogue, and compelled <em>them</em> to blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted <em>them</em> even unto strange cities. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whereupon as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests, <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them which journeyed with me. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? <em>it is</em> hard for thee to kick against the pricks. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee; <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Delivering thee from the people, and <em>from</em> the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee, <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To open their eyes, <em>and</em> to turn <em>them</em> from darkness to light, and <em>from</em> the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision: <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But shewed first unto them of Damascus, and at Jerusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Judaea, and <em>then</em> to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, and do works meet for repentance. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple, and went about to kill <em>me</em>. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come: <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> That Christ should suffer, <em>and</em> that he should be the first that should rise from the dead, and should shew light unto the people, and to the Gentiles. <a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But he said, I am not mad, most noble Festus; but speak forth the words of truth and soberness. <a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak freely: for I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from him; for this thing was not done in a corner. <a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest. <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. <a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds. <a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And when he had thus spoken, the king rose up, and the governor, and Bernice, and they that sat with them: <a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And when they were gone aside, they talked between themselves, saying, This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds. <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then said Agrippa unto Festus, This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed unto Caesar.

</body>
</html>