<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 22</h2>

<a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence <em>which I make</em> now unto you. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (And when they heard that he spake in the Hebrew tongue to them, they kept the more silence: and he saith,) <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I am verily a man <em>which am</em> a Jew, born in Tarsus, <em>a city</em> in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, <em>and</em> taught according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye all are this day. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As also the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the estate of the elders: from whom also I received letters unto the brethren, and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound unto Jerusalem, for to be punished. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I answered, Who art thou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid; but they heard not the voice of him that spake to me. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I said, What shall I do, Lord? And the Lord said unto me, Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all things which are appointed for thee to do. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when I could not see for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of them that were with me, I came into Damascus. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a good report of all the Jews which dwelt <em>there</em>, <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Came unto me, and stood, and said unto me, Brother Saul, receive thy sight. And the same hour I looked up upon him. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear the voice of his mouth. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast seen and heard. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem, even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance; <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And saw him saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee: <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when the blood of thy martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said unto me, Depart: for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they gave him audience unto this word, and <em>then</em> lifted up their voices, and said, Away with such a <em>fellow</em> from the earth: for it is not fit that he should live. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And as they cried out, and cast off <em>their</em> clothes, and threw dust into the air, <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The chief captain commanded him to be brought into the castle, and bade that he should be examined by scourging; that he might know wherefore they cried so against him. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned? <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When the centurion heard <em>that</em>, he went and told the chief captain, saying, Take heed what thou doest: for this man is a Roman. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then the chief captain came, and said unto him, Tell me, art thou a Roman? He said, Yea. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this freedom. And Paul said, But I was <em>free</em> born. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then straightway they departed from him which should have examined him: and the chief captain also was afraid, after he knew that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> On the morrow, because he would have known the certainty wherefore he was accused of the Jews, he loosed him from <em>his</em> bands, and commanded the chief priests and all their council to appear, and brought Paul down, and set him before them.

</body>
</html>