<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 18</h2>

<a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth; <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla; (because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome:) and came unto them. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the spirit, and testified to the Jews <em>that</em> Jesus <em>was</em> Christ. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when they opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook <em>his</em> raiment, and said unto them, Your blood <em>be</em> upon your own heads; I <em>am</em> clean: from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he departed thence, and entered into a certain <em>man's</em> house, named Justus, <em>one</em> that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed, and were baptized. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace: <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in this city. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he continued <em>there</em> a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews made insurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to the judgment seat, <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Saying, This <em>fellow</em> persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when Paul was now about to open <em>his</em> mouth, Gallio said unto the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O <em>ye</em> Jews, reason would that I should bear with you: <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But if it be a question of words and names, and <em>of</em> your law, look ye <em>to it</em>; for I will be no judge of such <em>matters</em>. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he drave them from the judgment seat. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat <em>him</em> before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for none of those things. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Paul <em>after this</em> tarried <em>there</em> yet a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn <em>his</em> head in Cenchrea: for he had a vow. <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When they desired <em>him</em> to tarry longer time with them, he consented not; <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But bade them farewell, saying, I must by all means keep this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will return again unto you, if God will. And he sailed from Ephesus. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up, and saluted the church, he went down to Antioch. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And after he had spent some time <em>there</em>, he departed, and went over <em>all</em> the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples. <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, <em>and</em> mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus. <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John. <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue: whom when Aquila and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto <em>them</em>, and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And when he was disposed to pass into Achaia, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him: who, when he was come, helped them much which had believed through grace: <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For he mightily convinced the Jews, <em>and that</em> publickly, shewing by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ.

</body>
</html>