<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples <em>unto them</em>, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, and serve tables. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a proselyte of Antioch: <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whom they set before the apostles: and when they had prayed, they laid <em>their</em> hands on them. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then there arose certain of the synagogue, which is called <em>the synagogue</em> of the Libertines, and Cyrenians, and Alexandrians, and of them of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spake. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses, and <em>against</em> God. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon <em>him</em>, and caught him, and brought <em>him</em> to the council, <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth not to speak blasphemous words against this holy place, and the law: <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered us. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And all that sat in the council, looking stedfastly on him, saw his face as it had been the face of an angel.

</body>
</html>