<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 24</h2>

<a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after five days Ananias the high priest descended with the elders, and <em>with</em> a certain orator <em>named</em> Tertullus, who informed the governor against Paul. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when he was called forth, Tertullus began to accuse <em>him</em>, saying, Seeing that by thee we enjoy great quietness, and that very worthy deeds are done unto this nation by thy providence, <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> We accept <em>it</em> always, and in all places, most noble Felix, with all thankfulness. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Notwithstanding, that I be not further tedious unto thee, I pray thee that thou wouldest hear us of thy clemency a few words. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For we have found this man <em>a</em> pestilent <em>fellow</em>, and a mover of sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes: <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who also hath gone about to profane the temple: whom we took, and would have judged according to our law. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the chief captain Lysias came <em>upon us</em>, and with great violence took <em>him</em> away out of our hands, <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Commanding his accusers to come unto thee: by examining of whom thyself mayest take knowledge of all these things, whereof we accuse him. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the Jews also assented, saying that these things were so. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Paul, after that the governor had beckoned unto him to speak, answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself: <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because that thou mayest understand, that there are yet but twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem for to worship. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they neither found me in the temple disputing with any man, neither raising up the people, neither in the synagogues, nor in the city: <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But this I confess unto thee, that after the way which they call heresy, so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and in the prophets: <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And have hope toward God, which they themselves also allow, that there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void of offence toward God, and <em>toward</em> men. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now after many years I came to bring alms to my nation, and offerings. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whereupon certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, neither with multitude, nor with tumult. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who ought to have been here before thee, and object, if they had ought against me. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Or else let these same <em>here</em> say, if they have found any evil doing in me, while I stood before the council, <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Except it be for this one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the resurrection of the dead I am called in question by you this day. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when Felix heard these things, having more perfect knowledge of <em>that</em> way, he deferred them, and said, When Lysias the chief captain shall come down, I will know the uttermost of your matter. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he commanded a centurion to keep Paul, and to let <em>him</em> have liberty, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance to minister or come unto him. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time; when I have a convenient season, I will call for thee. <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul, that he might loose him: wherefore he sent for him the oftener, and communed with him. <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But after two years Porcius Festus came into Felix' room: and Felix, willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound.

</body>
</html>