<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And as they spake unto the people, the priests, and the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees, came upon them, <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Being grieved that they taught the people, and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they laid hands on them, and put <em>them</em> in hold unto the next day: for it was now eventide. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed; and the number of the men was about five thousand. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers, and elders, and scribes, <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power, or by what name, have ye done this? <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and elders of Israel, <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what means he is made whole; <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, <em>even</em> by him doth this man stand here before you whole. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, which is become the head of the corner. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Saying, What shall we do to these men? for that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them <em>is</em> manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem; and we cannot deny <em>it</em>. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitly threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding nothing how they might punish them, because of the people: for all <em>men</em> glorified God for that which was done. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For the man was above forty years old, on whom this miracle of healing was shewed. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And being let go, they went to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said unto them. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord, and said, Lord, thou <em>art</em> God, which hast made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all that in them is: <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who by the mouth of thy servant David hast said, Why did the heathen rage, and the people imagine vain things? <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord, and against his Christ. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and the people of Israel, were gathered together, <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done. <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And now, Lord, behold their threatenings: and grant unto thy servants, that with all boldness they may speak thy word, <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> By stretching forth thine hand to heal; and that signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together; and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness. <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul: neither said any <em>of them</em> that ought of the things which he possessed was his own; but they had all things common. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus: and great grace was upon them all. <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Neither was there any among them that lacked: for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold, <a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And laid <em>them</em> down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need. <a id="c4_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, (which is, being interpreted, The son of consolation,) a Levite, <em>and</em> of the country of Cyprus, <a id="c4_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Having land, sold <em>it</em>, and brought the money, and laid <em>it</em> at the apostles' feet.

</body>
</html>