<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Saul was consenting unto his death. And at that time there was a great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and Samaria, except the apostles. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And devout men carried Stephen <em>to his burial</em>, and made great lamentation over him. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As for Saul, he made havock of the church, entering into every house, and haling men and women committed <em>them</em> to prison. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore they that were scattered abroad went every where preaching the word. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed <em>with them</em>: and many taken with palsies, and that were lame, were healed. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there was great joy in that city. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But there was a certain man, called Simon, which beforetime in the same city used sorcery, and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one: <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> To whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power of God. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And to him they had regard, because that of long time he had bewitched them with sorceries. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But when they believed Philip preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then Simon himself believed also: and when he was baptized, he continued with Philip, and wondered, beholding the miracles and signs which were done. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John: <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost: <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> (For as yet he was fallen upon none of them: only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.) <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then laid they <em>their</em> hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money, <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter: for thy heart is not right in the sight of God. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness, and <em>in</em> the bond of iniquity. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then answered Simon, and said, Pray ye to the Lord for me, that none of these things which ye have spoken come upon me. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he arose and went: and, behold, a man of Ethiopia, an eunuch of great authority under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who had the charge of all her treasure, and had come to Jerusalem for to worship, <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Was returning, and sitting in his chariot read Esaias the prophet. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself to this chariot. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Philip ran thither to <em>him</em>, and heard him read the prophet Esaias, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest? <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The place of the scripture which he read was this, He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; and like a lamb dumb before his shearer, so opened he not his mouth: <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> In his humiliation his judgment was taken away: and who shall declare his generation? for his life is taken from the earth. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other man? <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached unto him Jesus. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as they went on <em>their</em> way, they came unto a certain water: and the eunuch said, See, <em>here is</em> water; what doth hinder me to be baptized? <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him. <a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip, that the eunuch saw him no more: and he went on his way rejoicing. <a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preached in all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.

</body>
</html>