<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 20</h2>

<a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after the uproar was ceased, Paul called unto <em>him</em> the disciples, and embraced <em>them</em>, and departed for to go into Macedonia. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when he had gone over those parts, and had given them much exhortation, he came into Greece, <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And <em>there</em> abode three months. And when the Jews laid wait for him, as he was about to sail into Syria, he purposed to return through Macedonia. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And there accompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berea; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timotheus; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus. <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> These going before tarried for us at Troas. <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and came unto them to Troas in five days; where we abode seven days. <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And upon the first <em>day</em> of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow; and continued his speech until midnight. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there were many lights in the upper chamber, where they were gathered together. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutychus, being fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul was long preaching, he sunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, and was taken up dead. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Paul went down, and fell on him, and embracing <em>him</em> said, Trouble not yourselves; for his life is in him. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When he therefore was come up again, and had broken bread, and eaten, and talked a long while, even till break of day, so he departed. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they brought the young man alive, and were not a little comforted. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And we went before to ship, and sailed unto Assos, there intending to take in Paul: for so had he appointed, minding himself to go afoot. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in, and came to Mitylene. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And we sailed thence, and came the next <em>day</em> over against Chios; and the next <em>day</em> we arrived at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium; and the next <em>day</em> we came to Miletus. <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus, because he would not spend the time in Asia: for he hasted, if it were possible for him, to be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the elders of the church. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know, from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons, <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Serving the Lord with all humility of mind, and with many tears, and temptations, which befell me by the lying in wait of the Jews: <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> <em>And</em> how I kept back nothing that was profitable <em>unto you</em>, but have shewed you, and have taught you publickly, and from house to house, <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Testifying both to the Jews, and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there: <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I <em>am</em> pure from the blood of all <em>men</em>. <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. <a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them. <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears. <a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. <a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I have coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel. <a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Yea, ye yourselves know, that these hands have ministered unto my necessities, and to them that were with me. <a id="c20_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive. <a id="c20_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, and prayed with them all. <a id="c20_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they all wept sore, and fell on Paul's neck, and kissed him, <a id="c20_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship.

</body>
</html>