<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 28</h2>

<a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when they were escaped, then they knew that the island was called Melita. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindness: for they kindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the present rain, and because of the cold. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid <em>them</em> on the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the barbarians saw the <em>venomous</em> beast hang on his hand, they said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Howbeit they looked when he should have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the same quarters were possessions of the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius; who received us, and lodged us three days courteously. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and of a bloody flux: to whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and laid his hands on him, and healed him. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So when this was done, others also, which had diseases in the island, came, and were healed: <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who also honoured us with many honours; and when we departed, they laded <em>us</em> with such things as were necessary. <a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And after three months we departed in a ship of Alexandria, which had wintered in the isle, whose sign was Castor and Pollux. <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And landing at Syracuse, we tarried <em>there</em> three days. <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And from thence we fetched a compass, and came to Rhegium: and after one day the south wind blew, and we came the next day to Puteoli: <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Where we found brethren, and were desired to tarry with them seven days: and so we went toward Rome. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And from thence, when the brethren heard of us, they came to meet us as far as Appii forum, and The three taverns: whom when Paul saw, he thanked God, and took courage. <a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard: but Paul was suffered to dwell by himself with a soldier that kept him. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass, that after three days Paul called the chief of the Jews together: and when they were come together, he said unto them, Men <em>and</em> brethren, though I have committed nothing against the people, or customs of our fathers, yet was I delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Who, when they had examined me, would have let <em>me</em> go, because there was no cause of death in me. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But when the Jews spake against <em>it</em>, I was constrained to appeal unto Caesar; not that I had ought to accuse my nation of. <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For this cause therefore have I called for you, to see <em>you</em>, and to speak with <em>you</em>: because that for the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain. <a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they said unto him, We neither received letters out of Judaea concerning thee, neither any of the brethren that came shewed or spake any harm of thee. <a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, we know that every where it is spoken against. <a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when they had appointed him a day, there came many to him into <em>his</em> lodging; to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses, and <em>out of</em> the prophets, from morning till evening. <a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And some believed the things which were spoken, and some believed not. <a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed, after that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Ghost by Esaias the prophet unto our fathers, <a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Saying, Go unto this people, and say, Hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall see, and not perceive: <a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For the heart of this people is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed; lest they should see with <em>their</em> eyes, and hear with <em>their</em> ears, and understand with <em>their</em> heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them. <a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Be it known therefore unto you, that the salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles, and <em>that</em> they will hear it. <a id="c28_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, and had great reasoning among themselves. <a id="c28_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and received all that came in unto him, <a id="c28_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, no man forbidding him.

</body>
</html>