<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then said the high priest, Are these things so? <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said, Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken; The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran, <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And said unto him, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew thee. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then came he out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and dwelt in Charran: and from thence, when his father was dead, he removed him into this land, wherein ye now dwell. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not <em>so much as</em> to set his foot on: yet he promised that he would give it to him for a possession, and to his seed after him, when <em>as yet</em> he had no child. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And God spake on this wise, That his seed should sojourn in a strange land; and that they should bring them into bondage, and entreat <em>them</em> evil four hundred years. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, said God: and after that shall they come forth, and serve me in this place. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he gave him the covenant of circumcision: and so <em>Abraham</em> begat Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac <em>begat</em> Jacob; and Jacob <em>begat</em> the twelve patriarchs. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt: but God was with him, <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favour and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and he made him governor over Egypt and all his house. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now there came a dearth over all the land of Egypt and Chanaan, and great affliction: and our fathers found no sustenance. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent out our fathers first. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And at the second <em>time</em> Joseph was made known to his brethren; and Joseph's kindred was made known unto Pharaoh. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to <em>him</em>, and all his kindred, threescore and fifteen souls. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he, and our fathers, <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And were carried over into Sychem, and laid in the sepulchre that Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Emmor <em>the father</em> of Sychem. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But when the time of the promise drew nigh, which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt, <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Till another king arose, which knew not Joseph. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The same dealt subtilly with our kindred, and evil entreated our fathers, so that they cast out their young children, to the end they might not live. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and nourished up in his father's house three months: <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And when he was cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him for her own son. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and in deeds. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when he was full forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren the children of Israel. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And seeing one <em>of them</em> suffer wrong, he defended <em>him</em>, and avenged him that was oppressed, and smote the Egyptian: <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God by his hand would deliver them: but they understood not. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the next day he shewed himself unto them as they strove, and would have set them at one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren; why do ye wrong one to another? <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But he that did his neighbour wrong thrust him away, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us? <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Wilt thou kill me, as thou diddest the Egyptian yesterday? <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then fled Moses at this saying, and was a stranger in the land of Madian, where he begat two sons. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And when forty years were expired, there appeared to him in the wilderness of mount Sina an angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in a bush. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> When Moses saw <em>it</em>, he wondered at the sight: and as he drew near to behold <em>it</em>, the voice of the Lord came unto him, <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> <em>Saying</em>, I <em>am</em> the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Then Moses trembled, and durst not behold. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then said the Lord to him, Put off thy shoes from thy feet: for the place where thou standest is holy ground. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I have seen, I have seen the affliction of my people which is in Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, and am come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send thee into Egypt. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> This Moses whom they refused, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge? the same did God send <em>to be</em> a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel which appeared to him in the bush. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He brought them out, after that he had shewed wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the Red sea, and in the wilderness forty years. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> This is that Moses, which said unto the children of Israel, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear. <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> This is he, that was in the church in the wilderness with the angel which spake to him in the mount Sina, and <em>with</em> our fathers: who received the lively oracles to give unto us: <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> To whom our fathers would not obey, but thrust <em>him</em> from them, and in their hearts turned back again into Egypt, <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go before us: for <em>as for</em> this Moses, which brought us out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him. <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice unto the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands. <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Then God turned, and gave them up to worship the host of heaven; as it is written in the book of the prophets, O ye house of Israel, have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices <em>by the space of</em> forty years in the wilderness? <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan, figures which ye made to worship them: and I will carry you away beyond Babylon. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as he had appointed, speaking unto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seen. <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Which also our fathers that came after brought in with Jesus into the possession of the Gentiles, whom God drave out before the face of our fathers, unto the days of David; <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Who found favour before God, and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob. <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But Solomon built him an house. <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Howbeit the most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands; as saith the prophet, <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Heaven <em>is</em> my throne, and earth <em>is</em> my footstool: what house will ye build me? saith the Lord: or what <em>is</em> the place of my rest? <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Hath not my hand made all these things? <a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost: as your fathers <em>did</em>, so <em>do</em> ye. <a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? and they have slain them which shewed before of the coming of the Just One; of whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers: <a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Who have received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept <em>it</em>. <a id="c7_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with <em>their</em> teeth. <a id="c7_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up stedfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God, <a id="c7_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing on the right hand of God. <a id="c7_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and ran upon him with one accord, <a id="c7_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And cast <em>him</em> out of the city, and stoned <em>him</em>: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul. <a id="c7_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And they stoned Stephen, calling upon <em>God</em>, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. <a id="c7_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.

</body>
</html>