<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Know ye not, brethren, (for I speak to them that know the law,) how that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he liveth? <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to <em>her</em> husband so long as he liveth; but if the husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of <em>her</em> husband. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So then if, while <em>her</em> husband liveth, she be married to another man, she shall be called an adulteress: but if her husband be dead, she is free from that law; so that she is no adulteress, though she be married to another man. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of Christ; that ye should be married to another, <em>even</em> to him who is raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto God. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For when we were in the flesh, the motions of sins, which were by the law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But now we are delivered from the law, that being dead wherein we were held; that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not <em>in</em> the oldness of the letter. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What shall we say then? <em>Is</em> the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin <em>was</em> dead. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I was alive without the law once: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the commandment, which <em>was ordained</em> to life, I found <em>to be</em> unto death. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew <em>me</em>. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore the law <em>is</em> holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid. But sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is good; that sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we know that the law is spiritual: but I am carnal, sold under sin. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For that which I do I allow not: for what I would, that do I not; but what I hate, that do I. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that <em>it is</em> good. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present with me; but <em>how</em> to perform that which is good I find not. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the good that I would I do not: but the evil which I would not, that I do. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present with me. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I delight in the law of God after the inward man: <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body of this death? <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God; but with the flesh the law of sin.

</body>
</html>