<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 16</h2>

<a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea: <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many, and of myself also. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Greet Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus: <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Likewise <em>greet</em> the church that is in their house. Salute my wellbeloved Epaenetus, who is the firstfruits of Achaia unto Christ. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellowprisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Salute Urbane, our helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloved. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Salute Apelles approved in Christ. Salute them which are of Aristobulus' <em>household</em>. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Salute Herodion my kinsman. Greet them that be of the <em>household</em> of Narcissus, which are in the Lord. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the beloved Persis, which laboured much in the Lord. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Salute Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren which are with them. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints which are with them. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Salute one another with an holy kiss. The churches of Christ salute you. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoid them. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly; and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For your obedience is come abroad unto all <em>men</em>. I am glad therefore on your behalf: but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good, and simple concerning evil. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ <em>be</em> with you. Amen. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Timotheus my workfellow, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, salute you. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I Tertius, who wrote <em>this</em> epistle, salute you in the Lord. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Gaius mine host, and of the whole church, saluteth you. Erastus the chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Quartus a brother. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ <em>be</em> with you all. Amen. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret since the world began, <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith: <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> To God only wise, <em>be</em> glory through Jesus Christ for ever. Amen.<blue> Written to the Romans from Corinthus, <em>and sent</em> by Phebe servant of the church at Cenchrea.</blue>

</body>
</html>