<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 11</h2>

<a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I say then, Hath God cast away his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, <em>of</em> the tribe of Benjamin. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew. Wot ye not what the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercession to God against Israel, saying, <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have reserved to myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to <em>the image of</em> Baal. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if by grace, then <em>is it</em> no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace. But if <em>it be</em> of works, then is it no more grace: otherwise work is no more work. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for; but the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> (According as it is written, God hath given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear;) unto this day. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David saith, Let their table be made a snare, and a trap, and a stumblingblock, and a recompence unto them: <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see, and bow down their back alway. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall? God forbid: but <em>rather</em> through their fall salvation <em>is come</em> unto the Gentiles, for to provoke them to jealousy. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now if the fall of them <em>be</em> the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fulness? <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I speak to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am the apostle of the Gentiles, I magnify mine office: <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If by any means I may provoke to emulation <em>them which are</em> my flesh, and might save some of them. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For if the casting away of them <em>be</em> the reconciling of the world, what <em>shall</em> the receiving <em>of them be</em>, but life from the dead? <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For if the firstfruit <em>be</em> holy, the lump <em>is</em> also <em>holy</em>: and if the root <em>be</em> holy, so <em>are</em> the branches. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou, being a wild olive tree, wert graffed in among them, and with them partakest of the root and fatness of the olive tree; <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Boast not against the branches. But if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou wilt say then, The branches were broken off, that I might be graffed in. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not highminded, but fear: <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For if God spared not the natural branches, <em>take heed</em> lest he also spare not thee. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God: on them which fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in <em>his</em> goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be graffed in: for God is able to graff them in again. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild by nature, and wert graffed contrary to nature into a good olive tree: how much more shall these, which be the natural <em>branches</em>, be graffed into their own olive tree? <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceits; that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written, There shall come out of Sion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob: <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For this <em>is</em> my covenant unto them, when I shall take away their sins. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> As concerning the gospel, <em>they are</em> enemies for your sakes: but as touching the election, <em>they are</em> beloved for the fathers' sakes. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For the gifts and calling of God <em>are</em> without repentance. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For as ye in times past have not believed God, yet have now obtained mercy through their unbelief: <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Even so have these also now not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy upon all. <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable <em>are</em> his judgments, and his ways past finding out! <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor? <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For of him, and through him, and to him, <em>are</em> all things: to whom <em>be</em> glory for ever. Amen.

</body>
</html>