<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called <em>to be</em> an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (Which he had promised afore by his prophets in the holy scriptures,) <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Concerning his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And declared <em>to be</em> the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead: <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By whom we have received grace and apostleship, for obedience to the faith among all nations, for his name: <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Among whom are ye also the called of Jesus Christ: <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called <em>to be</em> saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers; <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Making request, if by any means now at length I might have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift, to the end ye may be established; <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> That is, that I may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I purposed to come unto you, (but was let hitherto,) that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to the wise, and to the unwise. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So, as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, The just shall live by faith. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in unrighteousness; <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them; for God hath shewed <em>it</em> unto them. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, <em>even</em> his eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse: <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Because that, when they knew God, they glorified <em>him</em> not as God, neither were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man, and to birds, and fourfooted beasts, and creeping things. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves: <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed for ever. Amen. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections: for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature: <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence of their error which was meet. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And even as they did not like to retain God in <em>their</em> knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not convenient; <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity; whisperers, <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Without understanding, covenantbreakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful: <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them.

</body>
</html>