<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 12</h2>

<a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, <em>which is</em> your reasonable service. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what <em>is</em> that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, not to think <em>of himself</em> more highly than he ought to think; but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office: <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So we, <em>being</em> many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecy, <em>let us prophesy</em> according to the proportion of faith; <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Or ministry, <em>let us wait</em> on <em>our</em> ministering: or he that teacheth, on teaching; <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that giveth, <em>let him do it</em> with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>Let</em> love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <em>Be</em> kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in honour preferring one another; <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord; <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing instant in prayer; <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Distributing to the necessity of saints; given to hospitality. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Bless them which persecute you: bless, and curse not. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> <em>Be</em> of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but <em>rather</em> give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance <em>is</em> mine; I will repay, saith the Lord. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.

</body>
</html>