<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 14</h2>

<a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, <em>but</em> not to doubtful disputations. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For one believeth that he may eat all things: another, who is weak, eateth herbs. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not; and let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath received him. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? to his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is able to make him stand. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day <em>alike</em>. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He that regardeth the day, regardeth <em>it</em> unto the Lord; and he that regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard <em>it</em>. He that eateth, eateth to the Lord, for he giveth God thanks; and he that eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die, we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For to this end Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that he might be Lord both of the dead and living. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For it is written, <em>As</em> I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge this rather, that no man put a stumblingblock or an occasion to fall in <em>his</em> brother's way. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that <em>there is</em> nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth any thing to be unclean, to him <em>it is</em> unclean. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But if thy brother be grieved with <em>thy</em> meat, now walkest thou not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let not then your good be evil spoken of: <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he that in these things serveth Christ <em>is</em> acceptable to God, and approved of men. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For meat destroy not the work of God. All things indeed <em>are</em> pure; but <em>it is</em> evil for that man who eateth with offence. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> <em>It is</em> good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor <em>any thing</em> whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hast thou faith? have <em>it</em> to thyself before God. Happy <em>is</em> he that condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because <em>he eateth</em> not of faith: for whatsoever <em>is</em> not of faith is sin.

</body>
</html>