<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> What advantage then hath the Jew? or what profit <em>is there</em> of circumcision? <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Much every way: chiefly, because that unto them were committed the oracles of God. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For what if some did not believe? shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> God forbid: yea, let God be true, but every man a liar; as it is written, That thou mightest be justified in thy sayings, and mightest overcome when thou art judged. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of God, what shall we say? <em>Is</em> God unrighteous who taketh vengeance? (I speak as a man) <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God forbid: for then how shall God judge the world? <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For if the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory; why yet am I also judged as a sinner? <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And not <em>rather</em>, (as we be slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say,) Let us do evil, that good may come? whose damnation is just. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What then? are we better <em>than they</em>? No, in no wise: for we have before proved both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin; <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one: <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They are all gone out of the way, they are together become unprofitable; there is none that doeth good, no, not one. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Their throat <em>is</em> an open sepulchre; with their tongues they have used deceit; the poison of asps <em>is</em> under their lips: <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whose mouth <em>is</em> full of cursing and bitterness: <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Their feet <em>are</em> swift to shed blood: <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Destruction and misery <em>are</em> in their ways: <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the way of peace have they not known: <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There is no fear of God before their eyes. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law: that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight: for by the law <em>is</em> the knowledge of sin. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Even the righteousness of God <em>which is</em> by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe: for there is no difference: <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God; <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus: <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whom God hath set forth <em>to be</em> a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past, through the forbearance of God; <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> To declare, <em>I say</em>, at this time his righteousness: that he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Where <em>is</em> boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? of works? Nay: but by the law of faith. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> <em>Is he</em> the God of the Jews only? <em>is he</em> not also of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also: <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Seeing <em>it is</em> one God, which shall justify the circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Do we then make void the law through faith? God forbid: yea, we establish the law.

</body>
</html>