<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And not only <em>so</em>, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing that tribulation worketh patience; <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And patience, experience; and experience, hope: <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And not only <em>so</em>, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned: <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> (For until the law sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed when there is no law. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But not as the offence, so also <em>is</em> the free gift. For if through the offence of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace, <em>which is</em> by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And not as <em>it was</em> by one that sinned, <em>so is</em> the gift: for the judgment <em>was</em> by one to condemnation, but the free gift <em>is</em> of many offences unto justification. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For if by one man's offence death reigned by one; much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.) <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore as by the offence of one <em>judgment came</em> upon all men to condemnation; even so by the righteousness of one <em>the free gift came</em> upon all men unto justification of life. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound: <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.

</body>
</html>