<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 9</h2>

<a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> That I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh: <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who are Israelites; to whom <em>pertaineth</em> the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the service <em>of God</em>, and the promises; <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whose <em>are</em> the fathers, and of whom as concerning the flesh Christ <em>came</em>, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect. For they <em>are</em> not all Israel, which are of Israel: <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Neither, because they are the seed of Abraham, <em>are they</em> all children: but, In Isaac shall thy seed be called. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> That is, They which are the children of the flesh, these <em>are</em> not the children of God: but the children of the promise are counted for the seed. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this <em>is</em> the word of promise, At this time will I come, and Sara shall have a son. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And not only <em>this</em>; but when Rebecca also had conceived by one, <em>even</em> by our father Isaac; <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> (For <em>the children</em> being not yet born, neither having done any good or evil, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that calleth;) <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It was said unto her, The elder shall serve the younger. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What shall we say then? <em>Is there</em> unrighteousness with God? God forbid. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So then <em>it is</em> not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that sheweth mercy. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the scripture saith unto Pharaoh, Even for this same purpose have I raised thee up, that I might shew my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will <em>have mercy</em>, and whom he will he hardeneth. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find fault? For who hath resisted his will? <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formed <em>it</em>, Why hast thou made me thus? <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour? <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> <em>What</em> if God, willing to shew <em>his</em> wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction: <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he had afore prepared unto glory, <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Even us, whom he hath called, not of the Jews only, but also of the Gentiles? <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As he saith also in Osee, I will call them my people, which were not my people; and her beloved, which was not beloved. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And it shall come to pass, <em>that</em> in the place where it was said unto them, Ye <em>are</em> not my people; there shall they be called the children of the living God. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Esaias also crieth concerning Israel, Though the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved: <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For he will finish the work, and cut <em>it</em> short in righteousness: because a short work will the Lord make upon the earth. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And as Esaias said before, Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us a seed, we had been as Sodoma, and been made like unto Gomorrha. <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, which followed not after righteousness, have attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith. <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to the law of righteousness. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Wherefore? Because <em>they sought it</em> not by faith, but as it were by the works of the law. For they stumbled at that stumblingstone; <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> As it is written, Behold, I lay in Sion a stumblingstone and rock of offence: and whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.

</body>
</html>