<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest: for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest doest the same things. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such things. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them which do such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God; <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who will render to every man according to his deeds: <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To them who by patient continuance in well doing seek for glory and honour and immortality, eternal life: <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But unto them that are contentious, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath, <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that doeth evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile; <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But glory, honour, and peace, to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Gentile: <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For there is no respect of persons with God. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without law: and as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> (For not the hearers of the law <em>are</em> just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves: <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Which shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and <em>their</em> thoughts the mean while accusing or else excusing one another;) <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Behold, thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest thy boast of God, <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And knowest <em>his</em> will, and approvest the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law; <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them which are in darkness, <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> An instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, which hast the form of knowledge and of the truth in the law. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal? <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege? <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the law dishonourest thou God? <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you, as it is written. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For circumcision verily profiteth, if thou keep the law: but if thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore if the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision? <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost transgress the law? <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; neither <em>is that</em> circumcision, which is outward in the flesh: <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But he <em>is</em> a Jew, which is one inwardly; and circumcision <em>is that</em> of the heart, in the spirit, <em>and</em> not in the letter; whose praise <em>is</em> not of men, but of God.

</body>
</html>