<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also <em>in the likeness</em> of <em>his</em> resurrection: <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with <em>him</em>, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For he that is dead is freed from sin. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him: <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Neither yield ye your members <em>as</em> instruments of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members <em>as</em> instruments of righteousness unto God. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness? <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But God be thanked, that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to righteousness unto holiness. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things <em>is</em> death. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the wages of sin <em>is</em> death; but the gift of God <em>is</em> eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

</body>
</html>