<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same: <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For he is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for he beareth not the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, a revenger to <em>execute</em> wrath upon him that doeth evil. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wherefore <em>ye</em> must needs be subject, not only for wrath, but also for conscience sake. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For for this cause pay ye tribute also: for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute <em>is due</em>; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honour to whom honour. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Owe no man any thing, but to love one another: for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shalt not covet; and if <em>there be</em> any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Love worketh no ill to his neighbour: therefore love <em>is</em> the fulfilling of the law. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And that, knowing the time, that now <em>it is</em> high time to awake out of sleep: for now <em>is</em> our salvation nearer than when we believed. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The night is far spent, the day is at hand: let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let us walk honestly, as in the day; not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh, to <em>fulfil</em> the lusts <em>thereof</em>.

</body>
</html>