<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining to the flesh, hath found? <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath <em>whereof</em> to glory; but not before God. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man, unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works, <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> <em>Saying</em>, Blessed <em>are</em> they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Blessed <em>is</em> the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>Cometh</em> this blessedness then upon the circumcision <em>only</em>, or upon the uncircumcision also? for we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> How was it then reckoned? when he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which <em>he had yet</em> being uncircumcised: that he might be the father of all them that believe, though they be not circumcised; that righteousness might be imputed unto them also: <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcision only, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which <em>he had</em> being <em>yet</em> uncircumcised. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For the promise, that he should be the heir of the world, <em>was</em> not to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For if they which are of the law <em>be</em> heirs, faith is made void, and the promise made of none effect: <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Because the law worketh wrath: for where no law is, <em>there is</em> no transgression. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore <em>it is</em> of faith, that <em>it might be</em> by grace; to the end the promise might be sure to all the seed; not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham; who is the father of us all, <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> (As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations,) before him whom he believed, <em>even</em> God, who quickeneth the dead, and calleth those things which be not as though they were. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Who against hope believed in hope, that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, So shall thy seed be. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead, when he was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sara's womb: <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God; <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And being fully persuaded that, what he had promised, he was able also to perform. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to him; <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead; <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who was delivered for our offences, and was raised again for our justification.

</body>
</html>