<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To Titus, <em>mine</em> own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, <em>and</em> peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee: <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate; <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision: <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> One of themselves, <em>even</em> a prophet of their own, said, The Cretians <em>are</em> alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Unto the pure all things <em>are</em> pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving <em>is</em> nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They profess that they know God; but in works they deny <em>him</em>, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.

</body>
</html>