<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, <em>but</em> gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, <em>and</em> hating one another. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared, <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour; <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> <em>This is</em> a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject; <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And let ours also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace <em>be</em> with you all. Amen.<blue> It was written to Titus, ordained the first bishop of the church of the Cretians, from Nicopolis of Macedonia.</blue>

</body>
</html>