<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine: <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The aged women likewise, that <em>they be</em> in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>To be</em> discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine <em>shewing</em> uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> <em>Exhort</em> servants to be obedient unto their own masters, <em>and</em> to please <em>them</em> well in all <em>things</em>; not answering again; <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ; <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee.

</body>
</html>