<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philemon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philemon 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy <em>our</em> brother, unto Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And to <em>our</em> beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the church in thy house: <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all saints; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yet for love's sake I rather beseech <em>thee</em>, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds: <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me: <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels: <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But without thy mind would I do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever; <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord? <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If he hath wronged thee, or oweth <em>thee</em> ought, put that on mine account; <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I Paul have written <em>it</em> with mine own hand, I will repay <em>it</em>: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus; <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ <em>be</em> with your spirit. Amen.<blue> Written from Rome to Philemon, by Onesimus a servant.</blue>

</body>
</html>