<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left <em>us</em> of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard <em>it</em>. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For he spake in a certain place of the seventh <em>day</em> on this wise, And God did rest the seventh day from all his works. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And in this <em>place</em> again, If they shall enter into my rest. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of unbelief: <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Again, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long a time; as it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God <em>did</em> from his. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let us labour therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the word of God <em>is</em> quick, and powerful, and sharper than any twoedged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and <em>is</em> a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things <em>are</em> naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast <em>our</em> profession. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as <em>we are, yet</em> without sin. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.

</body>
</html>