<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let <em>them</em> slip. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if the word spoken by angels was stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompence of reward; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard <em>him</em>; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> God also bearing <em>them</em> witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will? <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man, that thou visitest him? <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; thou crownedst him with glory and honour, and didst set him over the works of thy hands: <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing <em>that is</em> not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour; that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For it became him, for whom <em>are</em> all things, and by whom <em>are</em> all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified <em>are</em> all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren, <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold I and the children which God hath given me. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil; <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For verily he took not on <em>him the nature of</em> angels; but he took on <em>him</em> the seed of Abraham. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto <em>his</em> brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things <em>pertaining</em> to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted.

</body>
</html>