<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 6</h2>

<a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Of the doctrine of baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this will we do, if God permit. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For <em>it is</em> impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come, <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If they shall fall away, to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put <em>him</em> to an open shame. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is dressed, receiveth blessing from God: <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But that which beareth thorns and briers <em>is</em> rejected, and <em>is</em> nigh unto cursing; whose end <em>is</em> to be burned. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For God <em>is</em> not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And we desire that every one of you do shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end: <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> That ye be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself, <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for confirmation <em>is</em> to them an end of all strife. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed <em>it</em> by an oath: <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> That by two immutable things, in which <em>it was</em> impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us: <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Which <em>hope</em> we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into that within the veil; <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whither the forerunner is for us entered, <em>even</em> Jesus, made an high priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.

</body>
</html>