<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 7</h2>

<a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him; <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem, which is, King of peace; <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Without father, without mother, without descent, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God; abideth a priest continually. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now consider how great this man <em>was</em>, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham: <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he whose descent is not counted from them received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And without all contradiction the less is blessed of the better. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And here men that die receive tithes; but there he <em>receiveth them</em>, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And as I may so say, Levi also, who receiveth tithes, payed tithes in Abraham. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met him. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, (for under it the people received the law,) what further need <em>was there</em> that another priest should rise after the order of Melchisedec, and not be called after the order of Aaron? <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessity a change also of the law. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe, of which no man gave attendance at the altar. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For <em>it is</em> evident that our Lord sprang out of Juda; of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it is yet far more evident: for that after the similitude of Melchisedec there ariseth another priest, <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who is made, not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For he testifieth, Thou <em>art</em> a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope <em>did</em>; by the which we draw nigh unto God. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And inasmuch as not without an oath <em>he was made priest</em>: <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> (For those priests were made without an oath; but this with an oath by him that said unto him, The Lord sware and will not repent, Thou <em>art</em> a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec:) <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they truly were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death: <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But this <em>man</em>, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For such an high priest became us, <em>who is</em> holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens; <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, when he offered up himself. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity; but the word of the oath, which was since the law, <em>maketh</em> the Son, who is consecrated for evermore.

</body>
</html>