<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 11</h2>

<a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For by it the elders obtained a good report. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: and by it he being dead yet speaketh. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But without faith <em>it is</em> impossible to please <em>him</em>: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and <em>that</em> he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as <em>in</em> a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise: <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker <em>is</em> God. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Through faith also Sara herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful who had promised. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, <em>so many</em> as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea shore innumerable. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of <em>them</em>, and embraced <em>them</em>, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And truly, if they had been mindful of that <em>country</em> from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now they desire a better <em>country</em>, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten <em>son</em>, <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Of whom it was said, That in Isaac shall thy seed be called: <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Accounting that God <em>was</em> able to raise <em>him</em> up, even from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> By faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, <em>leaning</em> upon the top of his staff. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw <em>he was</em> a proper child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter; <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season; <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt: for he had respect unto the recompence of the reward. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king: for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Through faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry <em>land</em>: which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were compassed about seven days. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, and <em>of</em> Barak, and <em>of</em> Samson, and <em>of</em> Jephthae; <em>of</em> David also, and Samuel, and <em>of</em> the prophets: <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Women received their dead raised to life again: and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection: <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And others had trial of <em>cruel</em> mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment: <a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, tormented; <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> (Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in deserts, and <em>in</em> mountains, and <em>in</em> dens and caves of the earth. <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise: <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect.

</body>
</html>