<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things <em>pertaining</em> to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And by reason hereof he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God, as <em>was</em> Aaron. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As he saith also in another <em>place</em>, Thou <em>art</em> a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared; <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered; <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him; <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Called of God an high priest after the order of Melchisedec. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again which <em>be</em> the first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For every one that useth milk <em>is</em> unskilful in the word of righteousness: for he is a babe. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, <em>even</em> those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil.

</body>
</html>