<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 13</h2>

<a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let brotherly love continue. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Be not forgetful to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; <em>and</em> them which suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Marriage <em>is</em> honourable in all, and the bed undefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> <em>Let your</em> conversation <em>be</em> without covetousness; <em>and be</em> content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So that we may boldly say, The Lord <em>is</em> my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of <em>their</em> conversation. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For <em>it is</em> a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meats, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of <em>our</em> lips giving thanks to his name. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that <em>is</em> unprofitable for you. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live honestly. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But I beseech <em>you</em> the rather to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant, <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is wellpleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom <em>be</em> glory for ever and ever. Amen. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation: for I have written a letter unto you in few words. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Know ye that <em>our</em> brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Grace <em>be</em> with you all. Amen.<blue> Written to the Hebrews from Italy, by Timothy.</blue>

</body>
</html>