<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses <em>was faithful</em> in all his house. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this <em>man</em> was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honour than the house. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For every house is builded by some <em>man</em>; but he that built all things <em>is</em> God. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Moses verily <em>was</em> faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore (as the Holy Ghost saith, To day if ye will hear his voice, <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness: <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do alway err in <em>their</em> heart; and they have not known my ways. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.) <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But exhort one another daily, while it is called To day; lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> While it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But with whom was he grieved forty years? <em>was it</em> not with them that had sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness? <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not? <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.

</body>
</html>