<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 8</h2>

<a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now of the things which we have spoken <em>this is</em> the sum: We have such an high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens; <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, and not man. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore <em>it is</em> of necessity that this man have somewhat also to offer. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law: <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, See, saith he, <em>that</em> thou make all things according to the pattern shewed to thee in the mount. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For if that first <em>covenant</em> had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah: <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For this <em>is</em> the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord; I will put my laws into their mind, and write them in their hearts: and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people: <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they shall not teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In that he saith, A new <em>covenant</em>, he hath made the first old. Now that which decayeth and waxeth old <em>is</em> ready to vanish away.

</body>
</html>