<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Knowing <em>this</em>, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But let patience have <em>her</em> perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all <em>men</em> liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A double minded man <em>is</em> unstable in all his ways. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted: <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the rich, in that he is made low: because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth: so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed <em>is</em> the man that endureth temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Do not err, my beloved brethren. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath: <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass: <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth <em>therein</em>, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion <em>is</em> vain. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, <em>and</em> to keep himself unspotted from the world.

</body>
</html>