<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, <em>the Lord</em> of glory, with respect of persons. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring, in goodly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place; and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool: <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become judges of evil thoughts? <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hearken, my beloved brethren, Hath not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him? <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But ye have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you, and draw you before the judgment seats? <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by the which ye are called? <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If ye fulfil the royal law according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself, ye do well: <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But if ye have respect to persons, ye commit sin, and are convinced of the law as transgressors. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one <em>point</em>, he is guilty of all. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So speak ye, and so do, as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For he shall have judgment without mercy, that hath shewed no mercy; and mercy rejoiceth against judgment. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What <em>doth it</em> profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? can faith save him? <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be <em>ye</em> warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what <em>doth it</em> profit? <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well: the devils also believe, and tremble. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Was not Abraham our father justified by works, when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Seest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect? <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness: and he was called the Friend of God. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when she had received the messengers, and had sent <em>them</em> out another way? <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also.

</body>
</html>