<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same <em>is</em> a perfect man, <em>and</em> able also to bridle the whole body. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths, that they may obey us; and we turn about their whole body. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold also the ships, which though <em>they be</em> so great, and <em>are</em> driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth! <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the tongue <em>is</em> a fire, a world of iniquity: so is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature; and it is set on fire of hell. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind: <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But the tongue can no man tame; <em>it is</em> an unruly evil, full of deadly poison. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet <em>water</em> and bitter? <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? either a vine, figs? so <em>can</em> no fountain both yield salt water and fresh. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who <em>is</em> a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? let him shew out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> This wisdom descendeth not from above, but <em>is</em> earthly, sensual, devilish. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For where envying and strife <em>is</em>, there <em>is</em> confusion and every evil work. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, <em>and</em> easy to be intreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace.

</body>
</html>