<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> From whence <em>come</em> wars and fightings among you? <em>come they</em> not hence, <em>even</em> of your lusts that war in your members? <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye lust, and have not: ye kill, and desire to have, and cannot obtain: ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume <em>it</em> upon your lusts. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse <em>your</em> hands, <em>ye</em> sinners; and purify <em>your</em> hearts, <em>ye</em> double minded. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let your laughter be turned to mourning, and <em>your</em> joy to heaviness. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Speak not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of <em>his</em> brother, and judgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and judgeth the law: but if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There is one lawgiver, who is able to save and to destroy: who art thou that judgest another? <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Go to now, ye that say, To day or to morrow we will go into such a city, and continue there a year, and buy and sell, and get gain: <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whereas ye know not what <em>shall be</em> on the morrow. For what <em>is</em> your life? It is even a vapour, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For that ye <em>ought</em> to say, If the Lord will, we shall live, and do this, or that. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now ye rejoice in your boastings: all such rejoicing is evil. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth <em>it</em> not, to him it is sin.

</body>
</html>