<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 2</h2>

<a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby: <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If so be ye have tasted that the Lord <em>is</em> gracious. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To whom coming, <em>as unto</em> a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God, <em>and</em> precious, <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Unto you therefore which believe <em>he is</em> precious: but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence, <em>even to them</em> which stumble at the word, being disobedient: whereunto also they were appointed. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But ye <em>are</em> a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light: <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Which in time past <em>were</em> not a people, but <em>are</em> now the people of God: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Dearly beloved, I beseech <em>you</em> as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul; <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by <em>your</em> good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it be to the king, as supreme; <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For so is the will of God, that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men: <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> As free, and not using <em>your</em> liberty for a cloke of maliciousness, but as the servants of God. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Honour all <em>men</em>. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Servants, <em>be</em> subject to <em>your</em> masters with all fear; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For this <em>is</em> thankworthy, if a man for conscience toward God endure grief, suffering wrongfully. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For what glory <em>is it</em>, if, when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well, and suffer <em>for it</em>, ye take it patiently, this <em>is</em> acceptable with God. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps: <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he threatened not; but committed <em>himself</em> to him that judgeth righteously: <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye were healed. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For ye were as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.

</body>
</html>