<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 5</h2>

<a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight <em>thereof</em>, not by constraint, but willingly; not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind; <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Neither as being lords over <em>God's</em> heritage, but being ensamples to the flock. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all <em>of you</em> be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility: for God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time: <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Casting all your care upon him; for he careth for you. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour: <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whom resist stedfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle <em>you</em>. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> To him <em>be</em> glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By Silvanus, a faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have written briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The <em>church that is</em> at Babylon, elected together with <em>you</em>, saluteth you; and <em>so doth</em> Marcus my son. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Greet ye one another with a kiss of charity. Peace <em>be</em> with you all that are in Christ Jesus. Amen.

</body>
</html>