<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Peter 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Peter 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ: <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord, <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> According as his divine power hath given unto us all things that <em>pertain</em> unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue: <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For if these things be in you, and abound, they make <em>you that ye shall</em> neither <em>be</em> barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure: for if ye do these things, ye shall never fall: <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know <em>them</em>, and be established in the present truth. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting <em>you</em> in remembrance; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Knowing that shortly I must put off <em>this</em> my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shewed me. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts: <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake <em>as they were</em> moved by the Holy Ghost.

</body>
</html>