<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 John 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 John 3</h2>

<a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is the transgression of the law. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and in him is no sin. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Little children, let no man deceive you: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seed remaineth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Not as Cain, <em>who</em> was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not <em>his</em> brother abideth in death. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hereby perceive we the love <em>of God</em>, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down <em>our</em> lives for the brethren. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels <em>of compassion</em> from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him? <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before him. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, <em>then</em> have we confidence toward God. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he hath given us.

</body>
</html>