<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 John 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 John 4</h2>

<a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God: because many false prophets are gone out into the world. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God: <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God: and this is that <em>spirit</em> of antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come; and even now already is it in the world. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are of the world: therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son <em>to be</em> the propitiation for our sins. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son <em>to be</em> the Saviour of the world. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> We love him, because he first loved us. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also.

</body>
</html>