<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 John 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the truth's sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for ever. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace be with you, mercy, <em>and</em> peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into <em>your</em> house, neither bid him God speed: <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Having many things to write unto you, I would not <em>write</em> with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face, that our joy may be full. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen.

</body>
</html>