<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>3 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>3 John 1</h2>

<a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well: <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers to the truth. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth, prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth <em>them</em> out of the church. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Demetrius hath good report of all <em>men</em>, and of the truth itself: yea, and we <em>also</em> bear record; and ye know that our record is true. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write unto thee: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speak face to face. Peace <em>be</em> to thee. <em>Our</em> friends salute thee. Greet the friends by name.

</body>
</html>