<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Yahweh said to Abram, “Leave your country, and your relatives, and your father’s house, and go to the land that I will show you. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will make of you a great nation. I will bless you and make your name great. You will be a blessing. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you. All the families of the earth will be blessed through you.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So Abram went, as Yahweh had told him. Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Abram took Sarai his wife, Lot his brother’s son, all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people whom they had acquired in Haran, and they went to go into the land of Canaan. They entered into the land of Canaan. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. The Canaanites were in the land, then.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh appeared to Abram and said, “I will give this land to your offspring.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>He built an altar there to Yahweh, who had appeared to him. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He left from there to go to the mountain on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Ai on the east. There he built an altar to Yahweh and called on Yahweh’s name. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Abram traveled, still going on toward the South.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> There was a famine in the land. Abram went down into Egypt to live as a foreigner there, for the famine was severe in the land. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When he had come near to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, “See now, I know that you are a beautiful woman to look at. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It will happen, when the Egyptians see you, that they will say, ‘This is his wife.’ They will kill me, but they will save you alive. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Please say that you are my sister, that it may be well with me for your sake, and that my soul may live because of you.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When Abram had come into Egypt, Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The princes of Pharaoh saw her, and praised her to Pharaoh; and the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He dealt well with Abram for her sake. He had sheep, cattle, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yahweh afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram’s wife. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Pharaoh called Abram and said, “What is this that you have done to me? Why didn’t you tell me that she was your wife? <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,’ so that I took her to be my wife? Now therefore, see your wife, take her, and go your way.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Pharaoh commanded men concerning him, and they escorted him away with his wife and all that he had.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>