<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The man knew<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Eve his wife. She conceived,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and gave birth to Cain, and said, “I have gotten a man with Yahweh’s help.” <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Again she gave birth, to Cain’s brother Abel. Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As time passed, Cain brought an offering to Yahweh from the fruit of the ground. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Abel also brought some of the firstborn of his flock and of its fat. Yahweh respected Abel and his offering, <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but he didn’t respect Cain and his offering. Cain was very angry, and the expression on his face fell. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh said to Cain, “Why are you angry? Why has the expression of your face fallen? <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If you do well, won’t it be lifted up? If you don’t do well, sin crouches at the door. Its desire is for you, but you are to rule over it.” <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cain said to Abel, his brother, “Let’s go into the field.” While they were in the field, Cain rose up against Abel, his brother, and killed him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yahweh said to Cain, “Where is Abel, your brother?”</p>

<p>He said, “I don’t know. Am I my brother’s keeper?”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yahweh said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother’s blood cries to me from the ground. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now you are cursed because of the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> From now on, when you till the ground, it won’t yield its strength to you. You will be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Cain said to Yahweh, “My punishment is greater than I can bear. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, you have driven me out today from the surface of the ground. I will be hidden from your face, and I will be a fugitive and a wanderer in the earth. Whoever finds me will kill me.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yahweh said to him, “Therefore whoever slays Cain, vengeance will be taken on him sevenfold.” Yahweh appointed a sign for Cain, so that anyone finding him would not strike him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Cain left Yahweh’s presence, and lived in the land of Nod, east of Eden. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Cain knew his wife. She conceived, and gave birth to Enoch. He built a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To Enoch was born Irad. Irad became the father of Mehujael. Mehujael became the father of Methushael. Methushael became the father of Lamech. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Lamech took two wives: the name of the first one was Adah, and the name of the second one was Zillah. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Adah gave birth to Jabal, who was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His brother’s name was Jubal, who was the father of all who handle the harp and pipe. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Zillah also gave birth to Tubal Cain, the forger of every cutting instrument of brass and iron. Tubal Cain’s sister was Naamah. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Lamech said to his wives,</p>

<p>“Adah and Zillah, hear my voice.</p>

<p>You wives of Lamech, listen to my speech,</p>

<p>for I have slain a man for wounding me,</p>

<p>a young man for bruising me.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If Cain will be avenged seven times,</p>

<p>truly Lamech seventy-seven times.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Adam knew his wife again. She gave birth to a son, and named him Seth, saying, “for God has given me another child instead of Abel, for Cain killed him.” <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> A son was also born to Seth, and he named him Enosh. At that time men began to call on Yahweh’s name.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, lay with, or, had relations with</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, became pregnant</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>