<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him in God’s likeness. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He created them male and female, and blessed them. On the day they were created, he named them “Adam”.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Adam lived one hundred thirty years, and became the father of a son in his own likeness, after his image, and named him Seth. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The days of Adam after he became the father of Seth were eight hundred years, and he became the father of other sons and daughters. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All the days that Adam lived were nine hundred thirty years, then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seth lived one hundred five years, then became the father of Enosh. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Seth lived after he became the father of Enosh eight hundred seven years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All of the days of Seth were nine hundred twelve years, then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Enosh lived ninety years, and became the father of Kenan. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Enosh lived after he became the father of Kenan, eight hundred fifteen years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All of the days of Enosh were nine hundred five years, then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Kenan lived seventy years, then became the father of Mahalalel. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Kenan lived after he became the father of Mahalalel eight hundred forty years, and became the father of other sons and daughters <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and all of the days of Kenan were nine hundred ten years, then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Mahalalel lived sixty-five years, then became the father of Jared. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Mahalalel lived after he became the father of Jared eight hundred thirty years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All of the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred ninety-five years, then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jared lived one hundred sixty-two years, then became the father of Enoch. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jared lived after he became the father of Enoch eight hundred years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> All of the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty-two years, then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Enoch lived sixty-five years, then became the father of Methuselah. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> After Methuselah’s birth, Enoch walked with God for three hundred years, and became the father of more sons and daughters. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> All the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty-five years. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Enoch walked with God, and he was not found, for God took him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Methuselah lived one hundred eighty-seven years, then became the father of Lamech. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Methuselah lived after he became the father of Lamech seven hundred eighty-two years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty-nine years, then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Lamech lived one hundred eighty-two years, then became the father of a son. <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He named him Noah, saying, “This one will comfort us in our work and in the toil of our hands, caused by the ground which Yahweh has cursed.” <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Lamech lived after he became the father of Noah five hundred ninety-five years, and became the father of other sons and daughters. <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> All the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy-seven years, then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Noah was five hundred years old, then Noah became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Adam” and “Man” are spelled with the exact same consonants in Hebrew, so this can be correctly translated either way.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>