<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the serpent was more subtle than any animal of the field which Yahweh God had made. He said to the woman, “Has God really said, ‘You shall not eat of any tree of the garden?’”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The woman said to the serpent, “We may eat fruit from the trees of the garden, <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> but not the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden. God has said, ‘You shall not eat of it. You shall not touch it, lest you die.’”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The serpent said to the woman, “You won’t surely die, <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for God knows that in the day you eat it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took some of its fruit, and ate; and she gave some to her husband with her, and he ate it, too. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their eyes were opened, and they both knew that they were naked. They sewed fig leaves together, and made coverings for themselves. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They heard Yahweh God’s voice walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of Yahweh God among the trees of the garden.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yahweh God called to the man, and said to him, “Where are you?”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The man said, “I heard your voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from?”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The man said, “The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit from the tree, and I ate it.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yahweh God said to the woman, “What have you done?”</p>

<p>The woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh God said to the serpent,</p>

<p>“Because you have done this,</p>

<p>you are cursed above all livestock,</p>

<p>and above every animal of the field.</p>

<p>You shall go on your belly</p>

<p>and you shall eat dust all the days of your life.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will put hostility between you and the woman,</p>

<p>and between your offspring and her offspring.</p>

<p>He will bruise your head,</p>

<p>and you will bruise his heel.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To the woman he said,</p>

<p>“I will greatly multiply your pain in childbirth.</p>

<p>In pain you will bear children.</p>

<p>Your desire will be for your husband,</p>

<p>and he will rule over you.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> To Adam he said,</p>

<p>“Because you have listened to your wife’s voice,</p>

<p>and ate from the tree,</p>

<p>about which I commanded you, saying, ‘You shall not eat of it,’</p>

<p>the ground is cursed for your sake.</p>

<p>You will eat from it with much labor all the days of your life.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> It will yield thorns and thistles to you;</p>

<p>and you will eat the herb of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> By the sweat of your face will you eat bread until you return to the ground,</p>

<p>for out of it you were taken.</p>

<p>For you are dust,</p>

<p>and to dust you shall return.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The man called his wife Eve because she would be the mother of all the living. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yahweh God made coats of animal skins for Adam and for his wife, and clothed them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yahweh God said, “Behold, the man has become like one of us, knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand, and also take of the tree of life, and eat, and live forever...” <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore Yahweh God sent him out from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from which he was taken. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So he drove out the man; and he placed cherubim<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> at the east of the garden of Eden, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to guard the way to the tree of life.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>cherubim are powerful angelic creatures, messengers of God with wings. See Ezekiel 10.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>