<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Abraham took another wife, and her name was Keturah. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jokshan became the father of Sheba, and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, and Leummim. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The sons of Midian were: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac, <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but to the sons of Abraham’s concubines, Abraham gave gifts. He sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, to the east country. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> These are the days of the years of Abraham’s life which he lived: one hundred seventy-five years. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Abraham gave up his spirit, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years, and was gathered to his people. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Isaac and Ishmael, his sons, buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron, the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre, <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> the field which Abraham purchased of the children of Heth. Abraham was buried there with Sarah, his wife. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> After the death of Abraham, God blessed Isaac, his son. Isaac lived by Beer Lahai Roi.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now this is the history of the generations of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s servant, bore to Abraham. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to the order of their birth: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Mishma, Dumah, Massa, <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their villages, and by their encampments: twelve princes, according to their nations. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> These are the years of the life of Ishmael: one hundred thirty-seven years. He gave up his spirit and died, and was gathered to his people. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They lived from Havilah to Shur that is before Egypt, as you go toward Assyria. He lived opposite all his relatives.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> This is the history of the generations of Isaac, Abraham’s son. Abraham became the father of Isaac. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Paddan Aram, the sister of Laban the Syrian, to be his wife. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Isaac entreated Yahweh for his wife, because she was barren. Yahweh was entreated by him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The children struggled together within her. She said, “If it is so, why do I live?” She went to inquire of Yahweh. <a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yahweh said to her,</p>

<p>“Two nations are in your womb.</p>

<p>Two peoples will be separated from your body.</p>

<p>The one people will be stronger than the other people.</p>

<p>The elder will serve the younger.”</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The first came out red all over, like a hairy garment. They named him Esau. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> After that, his brother came out, and his hand had hold on Esau’s heel. He was named Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The boys grew. Esau was a skillful hunter, a man of the field. Jacob was a quiet man, living in tents. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now Isaac loved Esau, because he ate his venison. Rebekah loved Jacob. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jacob boiled stew. Esau came in from the field, and he was famished. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Esau said to Jacob, “Please feed me with that same red stew, for I am famished.” Therefore his name was called Edom.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jacob said, “First, sell me your birthright.”</p>

<p><a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Esau said, “Behold, I am about to die. What good is the birthright to me?”</p>

<p><a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Jacob said, “Swear to me first.”</p>

<p>He swore to him. He sold his birthright to Jacob. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jacob gave Esau bread and stew of lentils. He ate and drank, rose up, and went his way. So Esau despised his birthright.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Edom” means “red”.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>