<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Abram went up out of Egypt—he, his wife, all that he had, and Lot with him—into the South. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He went on his journeys from the South even to Bethel, to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai, <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to the place of the altar, which he had made there at the first. There Abram called on Yahweh’s name. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lot also, who went with Abram, had flocks, herds, and tents. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The land was not able to bear them, that they might live together; for their substance was great, so that they could not live together. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There was strife between the herdsmen of Abram’s livestock and the herdsmen of Lot’s livestock. The Canaanites and the Perizzites lived in the land at that time. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Abram said to Lot, “Please, let there be no strife between you and me, and between your herdsmen and my herdsmen; for we are relatives. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Isn’t the whole land before you? Please separate yourself from me. If you go to the left hand, then I will go to the right. Or if you go to the right hand, then I will go to the left.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lot lifted up his eyes, and saw all the plain of the Jordan, that it was well-watered everywhere, before Yahweh destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, like the garden of Yahweh, like the land of Egypt, as you go to Zoar. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So Lot chose the Plain of the Jordan for himself. Lot traveled east, and they separated themselves the one from the other. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Abram lived in the land of Canaan, and Lot lived in the cities of the plain, and moved his tent as far as Sodom. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now the men of Sodom were exceedingly wicked and sinners against Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh said to Abram, after Lot was separated from him, “Now, lift up your eyes, and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward, <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for all the land which you see, I will give to you, and to your offspring forever. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth, so that if a man can count the dust of the earth, then your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> may also be counted. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Arise, walk through the land in its length and in its width; for I will give it to you.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Abram moved his tent, and came and lived by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron, and built an altar there to Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>