<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Abraham traveled from there toward the land of the South, and lived between Kadesh and Shur. He lived as a foreigner in Gerar. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Abraham said about Sarah his wife, “She is my sister.” Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But God came to Abimelech in a dream of the night, and said to him, “Behold, you are a dead man, because of the woman whom you have taken. For she is a man’s wife.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now Abimelech had not come near her. He said, “Lord, will you kill even a righteous nation? <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Didn’t he tell me, ‘She is my sister?’ She, even she herself, said, ‘He is my brother.’ In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands I have done this.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God said to him in the dream, “Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also withheld you from sinning against me. Therefore I didn’t allow you to touch her. <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now therefore, restore the man’s wife. For he is a prophet, and he will pray for you, and you will live. If you don’t restore her, know for sure that you will die, you, and all who are yours.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ear. The men were very scared. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said to him, “What have you done to us? How have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? You have done deeds to me that ought not to be done!” <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Abimelech said to Abraham, “What did you see, that you have done this thing?”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Abraham said, “Because I thought, ‘Surely the fear of God is not in this place. They will kill me for my wife’s sake.’ <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Besides, she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When God caused me to wander from my father’s house, I said to her, ‘This is your kindness which you shall show to me. Everywhere that we go, say of me, “He is my brother.”’”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Abimelech took sheep and cattle, male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham, and restored Sarah, his wife, to him. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Abimelech said, “Behold, my land is before you. Dwell where it pleases you.” <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To Sarah he said, “Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver. Behold, it is for you a covering of the eyes to all that are with you. In front of all you are vindicated.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Abraham prayed to God. God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his female servants, and they bore children. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For Yahweh had closed up tight all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah, Abraham’s wife.</p>

</body>
</html>