<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God said to Jacob, “Arise, go up to Bethel, and live there. Make there an altar to God, who appeared to you when you fled from the face of Esau your brother.”</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then Jacob said to his household, and to all who were with him, “Put away the foreign gods that are among you, purify yourselves, change your garments. <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let us arise, and go up to Bethel. I will make there an altar to God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me on the way which I went.”</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They gave to Jacob all the foreign gods which were in their hands, and the rings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They traveled, and a terror of God was on the cities that were around them, and they didn’t pursue the sons of Jacob. <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So Jacob came to Luz (that is, Bethel), which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people who were with him. <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He built an altar there, and called the place El Beth El; because there God was revealed to him, when he fled from the face of his brother. <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Deborah, Rebekah’s nurse, died, and she was buried below Bethel under the oak; and its name was called Allon Bacuth.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> God appeared to Jacob again, when he came from Paddan Aram, and blessed him. <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> God said to him, “Your name is Jacob. Your name shall not be Jacob any more, but your name will be Israel.” He named him Israel. <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God said to him, “I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply. A nation and a company of nations will be from you, and kings will come out of your body. <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The land which I gave to Abraham and Isaac, I will give it to you, and to your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> after you will I give the land.”</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> God went up from him in the place where he spoke with him. <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he spoke with him, a pillar of stone. He poured out a drink offering on it, and poured oil on it. <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Jacob called the name of the place where God spoke with him “Bethel”.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They traveled from Bethel. There was still some distance to come to Ephrath, and Rachel travailed. She had hard labor. <a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When she was in hard labor, the midwife said to her, “Don’t be afraid, for now you will have another son.”</p>

<p><a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As her soul was departing (for she died), she named him Benoni,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> but his father named him Benjamin.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Rachel died, and was buried on the way to Ephrath (also called Bethlehem). <a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Jacob set up a pillar on her grave. The same is the Pillar of Rachel’s grave to this day. <a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Israel traveled, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Eder. <a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> While Israel lived in that land, Reuben went and lay with Bilhah, his father’s concubine, and Israel heard of it.</p>

<p>Now the sons of Jacob were twelve. <a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The sons of Leah: Reuben (Jacob’s firstborn), Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun. <a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin. <a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The sons of Bilhah (Rachel’s servant): Dan and Naphtali. <a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The sons of Zilpah (Leah’s servant): Gad and Asher. These are the sons of Jacob, who were born to him in Paddan Aram. <a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Jacob came to Isaac his father, to Mamre, to Kiriath Arba (which is Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac lived as foreigners.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The days of Isaac were one hundred eighty years. <a id="c35_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Isaac gave up the spirit, and died, and was gathered to his people, old and full of days. Esau and Jacob, his sons, buried him.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Benoni” means “son of my trouble”.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>“Benjamin” means “son of my right hand”.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>