<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the days of Amraphel, king of Shinar, Arioch, king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer, king of Elam, and Tidal, king of Goiim, <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> they made war with Bera, king of Sodom, and with Birsha, king of Gomorrah, Shinab, king of Admah, and Shemeber, king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (also called Zoar). <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All these joined together in the valley of Siddim (also called the Salt Sea). <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They served Chedorlaomer for twelve years, and in the thirteenth year, they rebelled. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer came, and the kings who were with him, and struck the Rephaim in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh Kiriathaim, <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the Horites in their Mount Seir, to El Paran, which is by the wilderness. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They returned, and came to En Mishpat (also called Kadesh), and struck all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that lived in Hazazon Tamar. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (also called Zoar) went out; and they set the battle in array against them in the valley of Siddim; <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> against Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings against the five. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now the valley of Siddim was full of tar pits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and some fell there, and those who remained fled to the hills. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their food, and went their way. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They took Lot, Abram’s brother’s son, who lived in Sodom, and his goods, and departed.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> One who had escaped came and told Abram, the Hebrew. At that time, he lived by the oaks of Mamre, the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner; and they were allies of Abram. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When Abram heard that his relative was taken captive, he led out his trained men, born in his house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued as far as Dan. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He divided himself against them by night, he and his servants, and struck them, and pursued them to Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He brought back all the goods, and also brought back his relative, Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the other people.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, at the valley of Shaveh (that is, the King’s Valley). <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine: and he was priest of God Most High. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He blessed him, and said, “Blessed be Abram of God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth: <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and blessed be God Most High, who has delivered your enemies into your hand.”</p>

<p>Abram gave him a tenth of all.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The king of Sodom said to Abram, “Give me the people, and take the goods for yourself.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Abram said to the king of Sodom, “I have lifted up my hand to Yahweh, God Most High, possessor of heaven and earth, <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> that I will not take a thread nor a sandal strap nor anything that is yours, lest you should say, ‘I have made Abram rich.’ <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I will accept nothing from you except that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men who went with me: Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre. Let them take their portion.”</p>

</body>
</html>