<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things Yahweh’s word came to Abram in a vision, saying, “Don’t be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Abram said, “Lord<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Yahweh, what will you give me, since I go childless, and he who will inherit my estate is Eliezer of Damascus?” <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Abram said, “Behold, to me you have given no children<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> : and, behold, one born in my house is my heir.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, Yahweh’s word came to him, saying, “This man will not be your heir, but he who will come out of your own body will be your heir.” <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yahweh brought him outside, and said, “Look now toward the sky, and count the stars, if you are able to count them.” He said to Abram, “So will your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> be.” <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He believed in Yahweh, who credited it to him for righteousness. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He said to Abram, “I am Yahweh who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give you this land to inherit it.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He said, “Lord Yahweh, how will I know that I will inherit it?”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He said to him, “Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtledove, and a young pigeon.” <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He brought him all these, and divided them in the middle, and laid each half opposite the other; but he didn’t divide the birds. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The birds of prey came down on the carcasses, and Abram drove them away.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram. Now terror and great darkness fell on him. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He said to Abram, “Know for sure that your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> will live as foreigners in a land that is not theirs, and will serve them. They will afflict them four hundred years. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will also judge that nation, whom they will serve. Afterward they will come out with great wealth, <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> but you will go to your fathers in peace. You will be buried at a good old age. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In the fourth generation they will come here again, for the iniquity of the Amorite is not yet full.” <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It came to pass that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold, a smoking furnace, and a flaming torch passed between these pieces. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day Yahweh made a covenant with Abram, saying, “I have given this land to your offspring,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates: <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> the Kenites, the Kenizzites, the Kadmonites, <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim, <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai”.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>