<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now this is the history of the generations of the sons of Noah and of Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Sons were born to them after the flood.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The sons of Japheth were: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sons of Gomer were: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The sons of Javan were: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Of these were the islands of the nations divided in their lands, everyone after his language, after their families, in their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The sons of Ham were: Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The sons of Cush were: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were: Sheba and Dedan. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cush became the father of Nimrod. He began to be a mighty one in the earth. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He was a mighty hunter before Yahweh. Therefore it is said, “like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before Yahweh”. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The beginning of his kingdom was Babel, Erech, Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Out of that land he went into Assyria, and built Nineveh, Rehoboth Ir, Calah, <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Resen between Nineveh and the great city Calah. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Mizraim became the father of Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim, <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Pathrusim, Casluhim (which the Philistines descended from), and Caphtorim.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Canaan became the father of Sidon (his firstborn), Heth, <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites, <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites, <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites. Afterward the families of the Canaanites were spread abroad. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The border of the Canaanites was from Sidon—as you go toward Gerar—to Gaza—as you go toward Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim—to Lasha. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These are the sons of Ham, after their families, according to their languages, in their lands and their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Children were also born to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sons of Shem were: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, and Aram. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The sons of Aram were: Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Arpachshad became the father of Shelah. Shelah became the father of Eber. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> To Eber were born two sons. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided. His brother’s name was Joktan. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Joktan became the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Obal, Abimael, Sheba, <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Their dwelling extended from Mesha, as you go toward Sephar, the mountain of the east. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> These are the sons of Shem, by their families, according to their languages, lands, and nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These are the families of the sons of Noah, by their generations, according to their nations. The nations divided from these in the earth after the flood.</p>

</body>
</html>