<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Behold, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah: <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all kinds of workmanship, <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to devise skillful works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and in cutting of stones for setting, and in carving of wood, to work in all kinds of workmanship. <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, I myself have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan; and in the heart of all who are wise-hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have commanded you: <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> the Tent of Meeting, the ark of the testimony, the mercy seat that is on it, all the furniture of the Tent, <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> the table and its vessels, the pure lamp stand with all its vessels, the altar of incense, <a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> the altar of burnt offering with all its vessels, the basin and its base, <a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> the finely worked garments—the holy garments for Aaron the priest—the garments of his sons to minister in the priest’s office, <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the anointing oil, and the incense of sweet spices for the holy place: according to all that I have commanded you they shall do.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “Speak also to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Most certainly you shall keep my Sabbaths: for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that you may know that I am Yahweh who sanctifies you. <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You shall keep the Sabbath therefore; for it is holy to you. Everyone who profanes it shall surely be put to death; for whoever does any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people. <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to Yahweh. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall surely be put to death. <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore the children of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, to observe the Sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant. <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It is a sign between me and the children of Israel forever; for in six days Yahweh made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested, and was refreshed.’”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He gave to Moses, when he finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, the two tablets of the testimony, stone tablets, written with God’s finger.</p>

</body>
</html>