<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He said to Moses, “Come up to Yahweh, you, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship from a distance. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Moses alone shall come near to Yahweh, but they shall not come near. The people shall not go up with him.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Moses came and told the people all Yahweh’s words, and all the ordinances; and all the people answered with one voice, and said, “All the words which Yahweh has spoken will we do.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Moses wrote all Yahweh’s words, and rose up early in the morning, and built an altar under the mountain, and twelve pillars for the twelve tribes of Israel. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He sent young men of the children of Israel, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of cattle to Yahweh. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people, and they said, “All that Yahweh has spoken will we do, and be obedient.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, “Look, this is the blood of the covenant, which Yahweh has made with you concerning all these words.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Moses, Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel went up. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They saw the God of Israel. Under his feet was like a paved work of sapphire<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> stone, like the skies for clearness. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He didn’t lay his hand on the nobles of the children of Israel. They saw God, and ate and drank.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh said to Moses, “Come up to me on the mountain, and stay here, and I will give you the stone tablets with the law and the commands that I have written, that you may teach them.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Moses rose up with Joshua, his servant, and Moses went up onto God’s Mountain. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He said to the elders, “Wait here for us, until we come again to you. Behold, Aaron and Hur are with you. Whoever is involved in a dispute can go to them.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Moses went up on the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh’s glory settled on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. The seventh day he called to Moses out of the middle of the cloud. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The appearance of Yahweh’s glory was like devouring fire on the top of the mountain in the eyes of the children of Israel. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Moses entered into the middle of the cloud, and went up on the mountain; and Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, lapis lazuli</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>