<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “You shall make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> long, and five cubits wide; the altar shall be square: and its height shall be three cubits. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You shall make its horns on its four corners; its horns shall be of one piece with it; and you shall overlay it with brass. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You shall make its pots to take away its ashes, its shovels, its basins, its meat hooks, and its fire pans: all its vessels you shall make of brass. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You shall make a grating for it of network of brass: and on the net you shall make four bronze rings in its four corners. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You shall put it under the ledge around the altar beneath, that the net may reach halfway up the altar. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You shall make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Its poles shall be put into the rings, and the poles shall be on the two sides of the altar, when carrying it. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You shall make it with hollow planks. They shall make it as it has been shown you on the mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “You shall make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen one hundred cubits long for one side: <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and its pillars shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings one hundred cubits long, and its pillars twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the width of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The width of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits. <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the gate of the court shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the pillars of the court around shall be filleted with silver; their hooks of silver, and their sockets of brass. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The length of the court shall be one hundred cubits, and the width fifty every where, and the height five cubits, of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All the instruments of the tabernacle in all its service, and all its pins, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “You shall command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In the Tent of Meeting, outside the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Yahweh: it shall be a statute forever throughout their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>