<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh said to Moses, “Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh, for by a strong hand he shall let them go, and by a strong hand he shall drive them out of his land.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God spoke to Moses, and said to him, “I am Yahweh; <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as God Almighty; but by my name Yahweh I was not known to them. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their travels, in which they lived as aliens. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Moreover I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage, and I have remembered my covenant. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore tell the children of Israel, ‘I am Yahweh, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm, and with great judgments: <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God; and you shall know that I am Yahweh your God, who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will bring you into the land which I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it to you for a heritage: I am Yahweh.’”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Moses spoke so to the children of Israel, but they didn’t listen to Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Moses spoke before Yahweh, saying, “Behold, the children of Israel haven’t listened to me. How then shall Pharaoh listen to me, who am of uncircumcised lips?” <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, and gave them a command to the children of Israel, and to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These are the heads of their fathers’ houses. The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the families of Simeon. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari; and the years of the life of Levi were one hundred thirty-seven years. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, according to their families. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel; and the years of the life of Kohath were one hundred thirty-three years. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to their generations. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Amram took Jochebed his father’s sister to himself as wife; and she bore him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were a hundred and thirty-seven years. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Aaron took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Nahshon, as his wife; and she bore him Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korahites. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Eleazar Aaron’s son took one of the daughters of Putiel as his wife; and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers’ houses of the Levites according to their families. <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom Yahweh said, “Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.” <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These are those who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt. These are that Moses and Aaron.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> On the day when Yahweh spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, “I am Yahweh. Speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I speak to you.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Moses said before Yahweh, “Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh listen to me?”</p>

</body>
</html>