<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “If a man steals an ox or a sheep, and kills it, or sells it; he shall pay five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If the thief is found breaking in, and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no guilt of bloodshed for him. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If the sun has risen on him, guilt of bloodshed shall be for him; he shall make restitution. If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If the stolen property is found in his hand alive, whether it is ox, donkey, or sheep, he shall pay double.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “If a man causes a field or vineyard to be eaten, and lets his animal loose, and it grazes in another man’s field, he shall make restitution from the best of his own field, and from the best of his own vineyard.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “If fire breaks out, and catches in thorns so that the shocks of grain, or the standing grain, or the field are consumed; he who kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “If a man delivers to his neighbor money or stuff to keep, and it is stolen out of the man’s house; if the thief is found, he shall pay double. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If the thief isn’t found, then the master of the house shall come near to God, to find out if he hasn’t put his hand to his neighbor’s goods. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For every matter of trespass, whether it is for ox, for donkey, for sheep, for clothing, or for any kind of lost thing, about which one says, ‘This is mine,’ the cause of both parties shall come before God. He whom God condemns shall pay double to his neighbor.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “If a man delivers to his neighbor a donkey, an ox, a sheep, or any animal to keep, and it dies or is injured, or driven away, no man seeing it; <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the oath of Yahweh shall be between them both, whether he hasn’t put his hand to his neighbor’s goods; and its owner shall accept it, and he shall not make restitution. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if it is stolen from him, he shall make restitution to its owner. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If it is torn in pieces, let him bring it for evidence. He shall not make good that which was torn.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “If a man borrows anything of his neighbor’s, and it is injured, or dies, its owner not being with it, he shall surely make restitution. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If its owner is with it, he shall not make it good. If it is a leased thing, it came for its lease.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “If a man entices a virgin who isn’t pledged to be married, and lies with her, he shall surely pay a dowry for her to be his wife. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “You shall not allow a sorceress to live.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “Whoever has sex with an animal shall surely be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “He who sacrifices to any god, except to Yahweh only, shall be utterly destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “You shall not wrong an alien or oppress him, for you were aliens in the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “You shall not take advantage of any widow or fatherless child. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If you take advantage of them at all, and they cry at all to me, I will surely hear their cry; <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and my wrath will grow hot, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “If you lend money to any of my people with you who is poor, you shall not be to him as a creditor. You shall not charge him interest. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If you take your neighbor’s garment as collateral, you shall restore it to him before the sun goes down, <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> for that is his only covering, it is his garment for his skin. What would he sleep in? It will happen, when he cries to me, that I will hear, for I am gracious.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> “You shall not blaspheme God, nor curse a ruler of your people.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “You shall not delay to offer from your harvest and from the outflow of your presses.</p>

<p>“You shall give the firstborn of your sons to me. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> You shall do likewise with your cattle and with your sheep. Seven days it shall be with its mother, then on the eighth day you shall give it to me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “You shall be holy men to me, therefore you shall not eat any meat that is torn by animals in the field. You shall cast it to the dogs.</p>

</body>
</html>