<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Moreover, you shall tell the children of Israel, ‘Anyone of the children of Israel, or of the strangers who live as foreigners in Israel, who gives any of his offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> to Molech; he shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I also will set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people because he has given of his offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> to Molech, to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my holy name. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If the people of the land all hide their eyes from that person, when he gives of his offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> to Molech, and don’t put him to death; <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and will cut him off, and all who play the prostitute after him, to play the prostitute with Molech, from among their people.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “‘The person that turns to those who are mediums, and to the wizards, to play the prostitute after them, I will even set my face against that person, and will cut him off from among his people.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “‘Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be holy; for I am Yahweh your God. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You shall keep my statutes, and do them. I am Yahweh who sanctifies you.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “‘For everyone who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death: he has cursed his father or his mother; his blood shall be upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “‘The man who commits adultery with another man’s wife, even he who commits adultery with his neighbor’s wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “‘The man who lies with his father’s wife has uncovered his father’s nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “‘If a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death: they have committed a perversion; their blood shall be upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “‘If a man lies with a male, as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “‘If a man takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they shall be burned with fire, both he and they; that there may be no wickedness among you.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “‘If a man lies with an animal, he shall surely be put to death; and you shall kill the animal.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “‘If a woman approaches any animal, and lies down with it, you shall kill the woman and the animal. They shall surely be put to death. Their blood shall be upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “‘If a man takes his sister, his father’s daughter, or his mother’s daughter, and sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness; it is a shameful thing. They shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people. He has uncovered his sister’s nakedness. He shall bear his iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “‘If a man lies with a woman having her monthly period, and uncovers her nakedness; he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood. Both of them shall be cut off from among their people.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister, nor of your father’s sister; for he has made his close relative naked. They shall bear their iniquity. <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If a man lies with his uncle’s wife, he has uncovered his uncle’s nakedness. They shall bear their sin. They shall die childless.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “‘If a man takes his brother’s wife, it is an impurity. He has uncovered his brother’s nakedness. They shall be childless.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “‘You shall therefore keep all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them; that the land, where I am bringing you to dwell, may not vomit you out. <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> You shall not walk in the customs of the nation, which I am casting out before you: for they did all these things, and therefore I abhorred them. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But I have said to you, “You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land flowing with milk and honey.” I am Yahweh your God, who has separated you from the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “‘You shall therefore make a distinction between the clean animal and the unclean, and between the unclean fowl and the clean: and you shall not make yourselves abominable by animal, or by bird, or by anything with which the ground teems, which I have separated from you as unclean for you. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> You shall be holy to me; for I, Yahweh, am holy, and have set you apart from the peoples, that you should be mine.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “‘A man or a woman that is a medium, or is a wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall stone them with stones. Their blood shall be upon them.’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>