<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘The set feasts of Yahweh, which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my set feasts.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “‘Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation; you shall do no kind of work. It is a Sabbath to Yahweh in all your dwellings.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “‘These are the set feasts of Yahweh, even holy convocations, which you shall proclaim in their appointed season. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening, is Yahweh’s Passover. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> On the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread to Yahweh. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the first day you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no regular work. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But you shall offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh seven days. In the seventh day is a holy convocation: you shall do no regular work.’”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you have come into the land which I give to you, and shall reap its harvest, then you shall bring the sheaf of the first fruits of your harvest to the priest: <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and he shall wave the sheaf before Yahweh, to be accepted for you. On the next day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> On the day when you wave the sheaf, you shall offer a male lamb without defect a year old for a burnt offering to Yahweh. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The meal offering with it shall be two tenths of an ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire to Yahweh for a pleasant aroma; and the drink offering with it shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You must not eat bread, or roasted grain, or fresh grain, until this same day, until you have brought the offering of your God. This is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “‘You shall count from the next day after the Sabbath, from the day that you brought the sheaf of the wave offering; seven Sabbaths shall be completed: <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> even to the next day after the seventh Sabbath you shall count fifty days; and you shall offer a new meal offering to Yahweh. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You shall bring out of your habitations two loaves of bread for a wave offering made of two tenths of an ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of fine flour. They shall be baked with yeast, for first fruits to Yahweh. <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You shall present with the bread seven lambs without defect a year old, one young bull, and two rams. They shall be a burnt offering to Yahweh, with their meal offering, and their drink offerings, even an offering made by fire, of a sweet aroma to Yahweh. <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You shall offer one male goat for a sin offering, and two male lambs a year old for a sacrifice of peace offerings. <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The priest shall wave them with the bread of the first fruits for a wave offering before Yahweh, with the two lambs. They shall be holy to Yahweh for the priest. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You shall make proclamation on the same day: there shall be a holy convocation to you; you shall do no regular work. This is a statute forever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you must not wholly reap into the corners of your field, and you must not gather the gleanings of your harvest. You must leave them for the poor, and for the foreigner. I am Yahweh your God.’”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, saying, ‘In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, shall be a solemn rest to you, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> You shall do no regular work; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh.’”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “However on the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement: it shall be a holy convocation to you, and you shall afflict yourselves; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You shall do no kind of work in that same day; for it is a day of atonement, to make atonement for you before Yahweh your God. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For whoever it is who shall not deny himself in that same day; shall be cut off from his people. <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Whoever it is who does any kind of work in that same day, that person I will destroy from among his people. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> You shall do no kind of work: it is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings. <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for you, and you shall deny yourselves. In the ninth day of the month at evening, from evening to evening, you shall keep your Sabbath.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, and say, ‘On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the feast of tents for seven days to Yahweh. <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> On the first day shall be a holy convocation: you shall do no regular work. <a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Seven days you shall offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh. On the eighth day shall be a holy convocation to you; and you shall offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh. It is a solemn assembly; you shall do no regular work.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> “‘These are the appointed feasts of Yahweh, which you shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire to Yahweh, a burnt offering, and a meal offering, a sacrifice, and drink offerings, each on its own day; <a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> besides the Sabbaths of Yahweh, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your freewill offerings, which you give to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> “‘So on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the fruits of the land, you shall keep the feast of Yahweh seven days: on the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest. <a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> You shall take on the first day the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and you shall rejoice before Yahweh your God seven days. <a id="c23_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> You shall keep it a feast to Yahweh seven days in the year. It is a statute forever throughout your generations. You shall keep it in the seventh month. <a id="c23_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> You shall dwell in temporary shelters<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> seven days. All who are native-born in Israel shall dwell in temporary shelters,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a>  <a id="c23_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> that your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in temporary shelters,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.’”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Moses declared to the children of Israel the appointed feasts of Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, booths</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, booths</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>or, booths</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>