<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying to them, <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, saying, ‘These are the living things which you may eat among all the animals that are on the earth. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Whatever parts the hoof, and is cloven-footed, and chews the cud among the animals, that you may eat.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “‘Nevertheless these you shall not eat of those that chew the cud, or of those who part the hoof: the camel, because he chews the cud but doesn’t have a parted hoof, he is unclean to you. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The cony,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> because he chews the cud but doesn’t have a parted hoof, he is unclean to you. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The hare, because she chews the cud but doesn’t part the hoof, she is unclean to you. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The pig, because he has a split hoof, and is cloven-footed, but doesn’t chew the cud, he is unclean to you. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Of their meat you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch; they are unclean to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “‘These you may eat of all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, that you may eat. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All that don’t have fins and scales in the seas, and in the rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of all the living creatures that are in the waters, they are an abomination to you, <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and you detest them. You shall not eat of their meat, and you shall detest their carcasses. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whatever has no fins nor scales in the waters, that is an abomination to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “‘These you shall detest among the birds; they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, and the vulture, and the black vulture, <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the red kite, any kind of black kite, <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> any kind of raven, <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> the horned owl, the screech owl, and the gull, any kind of hawk, <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the little owl, the cormorant, the great owl, <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> the white owl, the desert owl, the osprey, <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> the stork, any kind of heron, the hoopoe, and the bat.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “‘All flying insects that walk on all fours are an abomination to you. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yet you may eat these: of all winged creeping things that go on all fours, which have legs above their feet, with which to hop on the earth. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Even of these you may eat: any kind of locust, any kind of katydid, any kind of cricket, and any kind of grasshopper. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But all winged creeping things which have four feet, are an abomination to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “‘By these you will become unclean: whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “‘Every animal which parts the hoof, and is not cloven-footed, nor chews the cud, is unclean to you. Everyone who touches them shall be unclean. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whatever goes on its paws, among all animals that go on all fours, they are unclean to you. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He who carries their carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening. They are unclean to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “‘These are they which are unclean to you among the creeping things that creep on the earth: the weasel, the rat, any kind of great lizard, <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> the gecko, and the monitor lizard, the wall lizard, the skink, and the chameleon. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> These are they which are unclean to you among all that creep. Whoever touches them when they are dead, shall be unclean until the evening. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> On whatever any of them falls when they are dead, it shall be unclean; whether it is any vessel of wood, or clothing, or skin, or sack, whatever vessel it is, with which any work is done, it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening; then it will be clean. <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Every earthen vessel, into which any of them falls, all that is in it shall be unclean, and you shall break it. <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> All food which may be eaten, that on which water comes, shall be unclean; and all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean. <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Everything whereupon part of their carcass falls shall be unclean; whether oven, or range for pots, it shall be broken in pieces: they are unclean, and shall be unclean to you. <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Nevertheless a spring or a cistern in which water is gathered shall be clean: but that which touches their carcass shall be unclean. <a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> If part of their carcass falls on any sowing seed which is to be sown, it is clean. <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But if water is put on the seed, and part of their carcass falls on it, it is unclean to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> “‘If any animal, of which you may eat, dies; he who touches its carcass shall be unclean until the evening. <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He who eats of its carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening. He also who carries its carcass shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the evening.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> “‘Every creeping thing that creeps on the earth is an abomination. It shall not be eaten. <a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Whatever goes on its belly, and whatever goes on all fours, or whatever has many feet, even all creeping things that creep on the earth, them you shall not eat; for they are an abomination. <a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> You shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping thing that creeps. You shall not make yourselves unclean with them, that you should be defiled thereby. <a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> For I am Yahweh your God. Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be holy; for I am holy. You shall not defile yourselves with any kind of creeping thing that moves on the earth. <a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> For I am Yahweh who brought you up out of the land of Egypt, to be your God. You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> “‘This is the law of the animal, and of the bird, and of every living creature that moves in the waters, and of every creature that creeps on the earth, <a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> to make a distinction between the unclean and the clean, and between the living thing that may be eaten and the living thing that may not be eaten.’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or hyrax, or rock badger</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>