<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “If anyone sins, and commits a trespass against Yahweh, and deals falsely with his neighbor in a matter of deposit, or of bargain, or of robbery, or has oppressed his neighbor, <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> or has found that which was lost, and dealt falsely therein, and swearing to a lie; in any of these things that a man does, sinning therein; <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> then it shall be, if he has sinned, and is guilty, he shall restore that which he took by robbery, or the thing which he has gotten by oppression, or the deposit which was committed to him, or the lost thing which he found, <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> or any thing about which he has sworn falsely; he shall restore it even in full, and shall add a fifth part more to it. To him to whom it belongs he shall give it, in the day of his being found guilty. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He shall bring his trespass offering to Yahweh, a ram without defect from the flock, according to your estimation, for a trespass offering, to the priest. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The priest shall make atonement for him before Yahweh, and he will be forgiven concerning whatever he does to become guilty.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “Command Aaron and his sons, saying, ‘This is the law of the burnt offering: the burnt offering shall be on the hearth on the altar all night until the morning; and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The priest shall put on his linen garment, and he shall put on his linen breeches upon his body; and he shall remove the ashes from where the fire has consumed the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He shall take off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry the ashes outside the camp to a clean place. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it, it shall not go out; and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning: and he shall lay the burnt offering in order upon it, and shall burn on it the fat of the peace offerings. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually; it shall not go out.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “‘This is the law of the meal offering: the sons of Aaron shall offer it before Yahweh, before the altar. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He shall take from there his handful of the fine flour of the meal offering, and of its oil, and all the frankincense which is on the meal offering, and shall burn it on the altar for a pleasant aroma, as its memorial, to Yahweh. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> That which is left of it Aaron and his sons shall eat. It shall be eaten without yeast in a holy place. They shall eat it in the court of the Tent of Meeting. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It shall not be baked with yeast. I have given it as their portion of my offerings made by fire. It is most holy, as the sin offering, and as the trespass offering. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Every male among the children of Aaron shall eat of it, as their portion forever throughout your generations, from the offerings of Yahweh made by fire. Whoever touches them shall be holy.’”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer to Yahweh in the day when he is anointed: one tenth of an ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of fine flour for a meal offering perpetually, half of it in the morning, and half of it in the evening. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It shall be made with oil in a griddle. When it is soaked, you shall bring it in. You shall offer the meal offering in baked pieces for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The anointed priest that will be in his place from among his sons shall offer it. By a statute forever, it shall be wholly burned to Yahweh. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Every meal offering of a priest shall be wholly burned. It shall not be eaten.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “Speak to Aaron and to his sons, saying, ‘This is the law of the sin offering: in the place where the burnt offering is killed, the sin offering shall be killed before Yahweh. It is most holy. <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. It shall be eaten in a holy place, in the court of the Tent of Meeting. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whatever shall touch its flesh shall be holy. When there is any of its blood sprinkled on a garment, you shall wash that on which it was sprinkled in a holy place. <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But the earthen vessel in which it is boiled shall be broken; and if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, it shall be scoured, and rinsed in water. <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Every male among the priests shall eat of it: it is most holy. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> No sin offering, of which any of the blood is brought into the Tent of Meeting to make atonement in the Holy Place, shall be eaten: it shall be burned with fire.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>