<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘When a man consecrates a person to Yahweh in a vow, according to your valuation, <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> your valuation of a male from twenty years old even to sixty years old shall be fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the sanctuary. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If she is a female, then your valuation shall be thirty shekels. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If the person is from five years old even to twenty years old, then your valuation shall be for a male twenty shekels, and for a female ten shekels. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If the person is from a month old even to five years old, then your valuation shall be for a male five shekels of silver, and for a female your valuation shall be three shekels of silver. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If the person is from sixty years old and upward; if he is a male, then your valuation shall be fifteen shekels, and for a female ten shekels. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But if he is poorer than your valuation, then he shall be set before the priest, and the priest shall assign a value to him. The priest shall assign a value according to his ability to pay.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “‘If it is an animal, of which men offer an offering to Yahweh, all that any man gives of such to Yahweh becomes holy. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good: and if he shall at all change animal for animal, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If it is any unclean animal, of which they do not offer as an offering to Yahweh, then he shall set the animal before the priest; <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and the priest shall value it, whether it is good or bad. As you the priest values it, so shall it be. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But if he will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of it to its valuation.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “‘When a man dedicates his house to be holy to Yahweh, then the priest shall evaluate it, whether it is good or bad: as the priest shall evaluate it, so shall it stand. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If he who dedicates it will redeem his house, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall be his.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “‘If a man dedicates to Yahweh part of the field of his possession, then your valuation shall be according to the seed for it. The sowing of a homer<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of barley shall be valued at fifty shekels<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> of silver. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If he dedicates his field from the Year of Jubilee, according to your valuation it shall stand. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But if he dedicates his field after the Jubilee, then the priest shall reckon to him the money according to the years that remain to the Year of Jubilee; and an abatement shall be made from your valuation. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If he who dedicated the field will indeed redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of your valuation to it, and it shall remain his. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If he will not redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more; <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but the field, when it goes out in the Jubilee, shall be holy to Yahweh, as a devoted field. It shall be owned by the priests.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “‘If he dedicates a field to Yahweh which he has bought, which is not of the field of his possession, <a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> then the priest shall reckon to him the worth of your valuation up to the Year of Jubilee; and he shall give your valuation on that day, as a holy thing to Yahweh. <a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> In the Year of Jubilee the field shall return to him from whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the land belongs. <a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All your valuations shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: twenty gerahs<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> to the shekel.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “‘Only the firstborn among animals, which is made a firstborn to Yahweh, no man may dedicate it; whether an ox or sheep. It is Yahweh’s. <a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If it is an unclean animal, then he shall buy it back according to your valuation, and shall add to it the fifth part of it; or if it isn’t redeemed, then it shall be sold according to your valuation.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> “‘Notwithstanding, no devoted thing, that a man shall devote to Yahweh of all that he has, whether of man or animal, or of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “‘No one devoted, who shall be devoted from among men, shall be ransomed; he shall surely be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “‘All the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the trees, is Yahweh’s. It is holy to Yahweh. <a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If a man redeems anything of his tithe, he shall add a fifth part to it. <a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> All the tithe of the herds or the flocks, whatever passes under the rod, the tenth shall be holy to Yahweh. <a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He shall not search whether it is good or bad, neither shall he change it. If he changes it at all, then both it and that for which it is changed shall be holy. It shall not be redeemed.’”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> These are the commandments which Yahweh commanded Moses for the children of Israel on Mount Sinai.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>1 homer is about 220 liters or 6 bushels</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>A gerah is about 0.5 grams or about 7.7 grains.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>