<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh said to Moses, <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, and say to them, ‘I am Yahweh your God. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt, where you lived: and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, where I am bringing you. You shall not follow their statutes. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You shall do my ordinances, and you shall keep my statutes, and walk in them: I am Yahweh your God. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You shall therefore keep my statutes and my ordinances; which if a man does, he shall live in them. I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “‘None of you shall approach anyone who are his close relatives, to uncover their nakedness: I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, nor the nakedness of your mother: she is your mother. You shall not uncover her nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife. It is your father’s nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, the daughter of your father, or the daughter of your mother, whether born at home, or born abroad.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son’s daughter, or of your daughter’s daughter, even their nakedness: for theirs is your own nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s wife’s daughter, conceived by your father, since she is your sister.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s sister: she is your father’s near kinswoman.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother’s sister: for she is your mother’s near kinswoman.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father’s brother, you shall not approach his wife. She is your aunt.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law: she is your son’s wife. You shall not uncover her nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother’s wife. It is your brother’s nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “‘You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter. You shall not take her son’s daughter, or her daughter’s daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are near kinswomen: it is wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “‘You shall not take a wife to her sister, to be a rival, to uncover her nakedness, while her sister is yet alive.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “‘You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “‘You shall not lie carnally with your neighbor’s wife, and defile yourself with her.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “‘You shall not give any of your children to sacrifice to Molech. You shall not profane the name of your God. I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “‘You shall not lie with a man, as with a woman. That is detestable.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “‘You shall not lie with any animal to defile yourself with it. No woman may give herself to an animal, to lie down with it: it is a perversion.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “‘Don’t defile yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations which I am casting out before you were defiled. <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The land was defiled: therefore I punished its iniquity, and the land vomited out her inhabitants. <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> You therefore shall keep my statutes and my ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations; neither the native-born, nor the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you; <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> (for the men of the land that were before you had done all these abominations, and the land became defiled); <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> that the land not vomit you out also, when you defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “‘For whoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people. <a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore you shall keep my requirements, that you do not practice any of these abominable customs, which were practiced before you, and that you do not defile yourselves with them. I am Yahweh your God.’”</p>

</body>
</html>