<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Command the children of Israel, that they bring to you pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Outside of the veil of the Testimony, in the Tent of Meeting, shall Aaron keep it in order from evening to morning before Yahweh continually: it shall be a statute forever throughout your generations. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall keep in order the lamps on the pure gold lamp stand before Yahweh continually.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “You shall take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes of it: two tenths of an ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> shall be in one cake. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You shall set them in two rows, six on a row, on the pure gold table before Yahweh. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You shall put pure frankincense on each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire to Yahweh. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Every Sabbath day he shall set it in order before Yahweh continually. It is on the behalf of the children of Israel an everlasting covenant. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It shall be for Aaron and his sons; and they shall eat it in a holy place: for it is most holy to him of the offerings of Yahweh made by fire by a perpetual statute.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelite woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The son of the Israelite woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him to Moses. His mother’s name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They put him in custody, until Yahweh’s will should be declared to them. <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Bring out of the camp him who cursed; and let all who heard him lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He who blasphemes Yahweh’s name, he shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall certainly stone him. The foreigner as well as the native-born, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “‘He who strikes any man mortally shall surely be put to death. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He who strikes an animal mortally shall make it good, life for life. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If anyone injures his neighbor; as he has done, so shall it be done to him: <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he has injured someone, so shall it be done to him. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He who kills an animal shall make it good; and he who kills a man shall be put to death. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You shall have one kind of law for the foreigner as well as the native-born; for I am Yahweh your God.’”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Moses spoke to the children of Israel; and they brought out him who had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. The children of Israel did as Yahweh commanded Moses.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>