<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, saying, ‘If anyone sins unintentionally, in any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and does any one of them: <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> if the anointed priest sins so as to bring guilt on the people, then let him offer for his sin, which he has sinned, a young bull without defect to Yahweh for a sin offering. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall bring the bull to the door of the Tent of Meeting before Yahweh; and he shall lay his hand on the head of the bull, and kill the bull before Yahweh. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The anointed priest shall take some of the blood of the bull, and bring it to the Tent of Meeting. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle some of the blood seven times before Yahweh, before the veil of the sanctuary. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of sweet incense before Yahweh, which is in the Tent of Meeting; and he shall pour out all of rest of the blood of the bull at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the door of the Tent of Meeting. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He shall take all the fat of the bull of the sin offering off of it; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards, <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away, <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> as it is taken off of the bull of the sacrifice of peace offerings. The priest shall burn them on the altar of burnt offering. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The bull’s skin, all its meat, with its head, and with its legs, its innards, and its dung, <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> he shall carry the whole bull outside of the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn it on wood with fire. Where the ashes are poured out, it shall be burned.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “‘If the whole congregation of Israel sins, and the thing is hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and are guilty; <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> when the sin in which they have sinned is known, then the assembly shall offer a young bull for a sin offering, and bring it before the Tent of Meeting. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before Yahweh; and the bull shall be killed before Yahweh. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The anointed priest shall bring of the blood of the bull to the Tent of Meeting: <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before Yahweh, before the veil. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar which is before Yahweh, that is in the Tent of Meeting; and the rest of the blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the door of the Tent of Meeting. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All its fat he shall take from it, and burn it on the altar. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thus shall he do with the bull; as he did with the bull of the sin offering, so shall he do with this; and the priest shall make atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He shall carry the bull outside the camp, and burn it as he burned the first bull. It is the sin offering for the assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “‘When a ruler sins, and unwittingly does any one of all the things which Yahweh his God has commanded not to be done, and is guilty; <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> if his sin, in which he has sinned, is made known to him, he shall bring as his offering a goat, a male without defect. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He shall lay his hand on the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before Yahweh. It is a sin offering. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering. He shall pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All its fat he shall burn on the altar, like the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin, and he will be forgiven.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “‘If anyone of the common people sins unwittingly, in doing any of the things which Yahweh has commanded not to be done, and is guilty; <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> if his sin, which he has sinned, is made known to him, then he shall bring for his offering a goat, a female without defect, for his sin which he has sinned. <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering, and kill the sin offering in the place of burnt offering. <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The priest shall take some of its blood with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> All its fat he shall take away, like the fat is taken away from off of the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it on the altar for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh; and the priest shall make atonement for him, and he will be forgiven.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> “‘If he brings a lamb as his offering for a sin offering, he shall bring a female without defect. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering, and kill it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering. <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering; and all the rest of its blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar. <a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> All its fat he shall take away, like the fat of the lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them on the altar, on the offerings of Yahweh made by fire; and the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin that he has sinned, and he will be forgiven.</p>

</body>
</html>