<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘You shall be holy; for I, Yahweh your God, am holy.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “‘Each one of you shall respect his mother and his father. You shall keep my Sabbaths. I am Yahweh your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “‘Don’t turn to idols, nor make molten gods for yourselves. I am Yahweh your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “‘When you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to Yahweh, you shall offer it so that you may be accepted. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, and on the next day: and if anything remains until the third day, it shall be burned with fire. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If it is eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination. It will not be accepted; <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but everyone who eats it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned the holy thing of Yahweh, and that soul shall be cut off from his people.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field, neither shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You shall not glean your vineyard, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and for the foreigner. I am Yahweh your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “‘You shall not steal.</p>

<p>“‘You shall not lie.</p>

<p>“‘You shall not deceive one another.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “‘You shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of your God. I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “‘You shall not oppress your neighbor, nor rob him.</p>

<p>“‘The wages of a hired servant shall not remain with you all night until the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “‘You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind; but you shall fear your God. I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “‘You shall do no injustice in judgment. You shall not be partial to the poor, nor show favoritism to the great; but you shall judge your neighbor in righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “‘You shall not go up and down as a slanderer among your people.</p>

<p>“‘You shall not endanger the life<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of your neighbor. I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “‘You shall not hate your brother in your heart. You shall surely rebuke your neighbor, and not bear sin because of him.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “‘You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people; but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “‘You shall keep my statutes.</p>

<p>“‘You shall not cross-breed different kinds of animals.</p>

<p>“‘You shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed;</p>

<p>“‘Don’t wear a garment made of two kinds of material.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “‘If a man lies carnally with a woman who is a slave girl, pledged to be married to another man, and not ransomed, or given her freedom; they shall be punished. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He shall bring his trespass offering to Yahweh, to the door of the Tent of Meeting, even a ram for a trespass offering. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before Yahweh for his sin which he has committed: and the sin which he has committed shall be forgiven him.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “‘When you come into the land, and have planted all kinds of trees for food, then you shall count their fruit as forbidden.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> Three years they shall be forbidden to you. It shall not be eaten. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy, for giving praise to Yahweh. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In the fifth year you shall eat its fruit, that it may yield its increase to you. I am Yahweh your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “‘You shall not eat any meat with the blood still in it. You shall not use enchantments, nor practice sorcery.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “‘You shall not cut the hair on the sides of your head or clip off the edge of your beard.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> “‘You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor tattoo any marks on you. I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “‘Don’t profane your daughter, to make her a prostitute; lest the land fall to prostitution, and the land become full of wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “‘You shall keep my Sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “‘Don’t turn to those who are mediums, nor to the wizards. Don’t seek them out, to be defiled by them. I am Yahweh your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> “‘You shall rise up before the gray head, and honor the face of an old man, and you shall fear your God. I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> “‘If a stranger lives as a foreigner with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong. <a id="c19_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The stranger who lives as a foreigner with you shall be to you as the native-born among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you lived as foreigners in the land of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> “‘You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity. <a id="c19_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and a just hin. I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> “‘You shall observe all my statutes, and all my ordinances, and do them. I am Yahweh.’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>literally, “blood”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>literally, “uncircumcised”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>