<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “‘If his offering is a sacrifice of peace offerings; if he offers it from the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without defect before Yahweh. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron’s sons, the priests, shall sprinkle the blood around on the altar. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He shall offer of the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire to Yahweh; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards, <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Aaron’s sons shall burn it on the altar on the burnt offering, which is on the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “‘If his offering for a sacrifice of peace offerings to Yahweh is from the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without defect. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If he offers a lamb for his offering, then he shall offer it before Yahweh; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it before the Tent of Meeting: and Aaron’s sons shall sprinkle its blood around on the altar. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He shall offer from the sacrifice of peace offerings an offering made by fire to Yahweh; its fat, the entire tail fat, he shall take away close to the backbone; and the fat that covers the inwards, and all the fat that is on the inwards, <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The priest shall burn it on the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “‘If his offering is a goat, then he shall offer it before Yahweh: <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and he shall lay his hand on its head, and kill it before the Tent of Meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle its blood around on the altar. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He shall offer from it as his offering, an offering made by fire to Yahweh; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards, <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the cover on the liver, with the kidneys, he shall take away. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The priest shall burn them on the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire, for a pleasant aroma; all the fat is Yahweh’s.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “‘It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that you shall eat neither fat nor blood.’”</p>

</body>
</html>