<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they came near before Yahweh, and died; <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and Yahweh said to Moses, “Tell Aaron your brother, not to come at all times into the Most Holy Place within the veil, before the mercy seat which is on the ark; lest he die: for I will appear in the cloud on the mercy seat.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Aaron shall come into the sanctuary with a young bull for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall put on the holy linen coat. He shall have the linen breeches on his body, and shall put on the linen sash, and he shall be clothed with the linen turban. They are the holy garments. He shall bathe his body in water, and put them on. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He shall take from the congregation of the children of Israel two male goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a burnt offering.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Aaron shall offer the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and make atonement for himself and for his house. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He shall take the two goats, and set them before Yahweh at the door of the Tent of Meeting. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Aaron shall cast lots for the two goats; one lot for Yahweh, and the other lot for the scapegoat. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Aaron shall present the goat on which the lot fell for Yahweh, and offer him for a sin offering. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the goat, on which the lot fell for the scapegoat, shall be presented alive before Yahweh, to make atonement for him, to send him away for the scapegoat into the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Aaron shall present the bull of the sin offering, which is for himself, and shall make atonement for himself and for his house, and shall kill the bull of the sin offering which is for himself. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He shall take a censer full of coals of fire from off the altar before Yahweh, and two handfuls of sweet incense beaten small, and bring it within the veil: <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and he shall put the incense on the fire before Yahweh, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is on the testimony, so that he will not die. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He shall take some of the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it with his finger on the mercy seat on the east; and before the mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “Then he shall kill the goat of the sin offering, that is for the people, and bring his blood within the veil, and do with his blood as he did with the blood of the bull, and sprinkle it on the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He shall make atonement for the Holy Place, because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions, even all their sins; and so he shall do for the Tent of Meeting, that dwells with them in the middle of their uncleanness. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> No one shall be in the Tent of Meeting when he enters to make atonement in the Holy Place, until he comes out, and has made atonement for himself and for his household, and for all the assembly of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “He shall go out to the altar that is before Yahweh and make atonement for it, and shall take some of the bull’s blood, and some of the goat’s blood, and put it around on the horns of the altar. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times, and cleanse it, and make it holy from the uncleanness of the children of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “When he has finished atoning for the Holy Place, the Tent of Meeting, and the altar, he shall present the live goat. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions, even all their sins; and he shall put them on the head of the goat, and shall send him away into the wilderness by the hand of a man who is in readiness. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The goat shall carry all their iniquities on himself to a solitary land, and he shall let the goat go in the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “Aaron shall come into the Tent of Meeting, and shall take off the linen garments, which he put on when he went into the Holy Place, and shall leave them there. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then he shall bathe himself in water in a holy place, and put on his garments, and come out and offer his burnt offering and the burnt offering of the people, and make atonement for himself and for the people. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The fat of the sin offering he shall burn on the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “He who lets the goat go for the scapegoat shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp. <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The bull for the sin offering, and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the Holy Place, shall be carried outside the camp; and they shall burn their skins, their flesh, and their dung with fire. <a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He who burns them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “It shall be a statute to you forever: in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, you shall afflict your souls, and shall do no kind of work, the native-born, or the stranger who lives as a foreigner among you: <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> for on this day shall atonement be made for you, to cleanse you; from all your sins you shall be clean before Yahweh. <a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It is a Sabbath of solemn rest to you, and you shall afflict your souls. It is a statute forever. <a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The priest, who is anointed and who is consecrated to be priest in his father’s place, shall make the atonement, and shall put on the linen garments, even the holy garments. <a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then he shall make atonement for the Holy Sanctuary; and he shall make atonement for the Tent of Meeting and for the altar; and he shall make atonement for the priests and for all the people of the assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> “This shall be an everlasting statute for you, to make atonement for the children of Israel once in the year because of all their sins.”</p>

<p>It was done as Yahweh commanded Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>