<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> On the eighth day, Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel; <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he said to Aaron, “Take a calf from the herd for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, without defect, and offer them before Yahweh. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, ‘Take a male goat for a sin offering; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without defect, for a burnt offering; <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and a bull and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before Yahweh; and a meal offering mixed with oil: for today Yahweh appears to you.’”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They brought what Moses commanded before the Tent of Meeting: and all the congregation came near and stood before Yahweh. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Moses said, “This is the thing which Yahweh commanded that you should do: and Yahweh’s glory shall appear to you.” <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Moses said to Aaron, “Draw near to the altar, and offer your sin offering, and your burnt offering, and make atonement for yourself, and for the people; and offer the offering of the people, and make atonement for them; as Yahweh commanded.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So Aaron came near to the altar, and killed the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The sons of Aaron presented the blood to him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it on the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar: <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but the fat, and the kidneys, and the cover from the liver of the sin offering, he burned upon the altar; as Yahweh commanded Moses. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The meat and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He killed the burnt offering; and Aaron’s sons delivered the blood to him, and he sprinkled it around on the altar. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They delivered the burnt offering to him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burned them upon the altar. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He washed the innards and the legs, and burned them on the burnt offering on the altar. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He presented the people’s offering, and took the goat of the sin offering which was for the people, and killed it, and offered it for sin, like the first. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He presented the burnt offering, and offered it according to the ordinance. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He presented the meal offering, and filled his hand from there, and burned it upon the altar, besides the burnt offering of the morning. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He also killed the bull and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron’s sons delivered to him the blood, which he sprinkled around on the altar, <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the fat of the bull and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers the innards, and the kidneys, and the cover of the liver: <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burned the fat on the altar: <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave offering before Yahweh, as Moses commanded. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offerings.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Moses and Aaron went into the Tent of Meeting, and came out, and blessed the people: and Yahweh’s glory appeared to all the people. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Fire came out from before Yahweh, and consumed the burnt offering and the fat upon the altar. When all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.</p>

</body>
</html>