<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of Manasseh the son of Joseph came near. These are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They stood before Moses, and before Eleazar the priest, and before the princes and all the congregation, at the door of the Tent of Meeting, saying, <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Our father died in the wilderness. He was not among the company of those who gathered themselves together against Yahweh in the company of Korah, but he died in his own sin. He had no sons. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Why should the name of our father be taken away from among his family, because he had no son? Give to us a possession among the brothers of our father.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Moses brought their cause before Yahweh. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “The daughters of Zelophehad speak right. You shall surely give them a possession of an inheritance among their father’s brothers. You shall cause the inheritance of their father to pass to them. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You shall speak to the children of Israel, saying, ‘If a man dies, and has no son, then you shall cause his inheritance to pass to his daughter. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If he has no daughter, then you shall give his inheritance to his brothers. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If he has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his father’s brothers. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If his father has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his kinsman who is next to him of his family, and he shall possess it. This shall be a statute and ordinance for the children of Israel, as Yahweh commanded Moses.’”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh said to Moses, “Go up into this mountain of Abarim, and see the land which I have given to the children of Israel. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother was gathered; <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> because in the strife of the congregation, you rebelled against my word in the wilderness of Zin, to honor me as holy at the waters before their eyes.” (These are the waters of Meribah of Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.)</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Moses spoke to Yahweh, saying, <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Let Yahweh, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation, <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> who may go out before them, and who may come in before them, and who may lead them out, and who may bring them in; that the congregation of Yahweh not be as sheep which have no shepherd.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yahweh said to Moses, “Take Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand on him. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation; and commission him in their sight. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You shall give authority to him, that all the congregation of the children of Israel may obey. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Urim before Yahweh. At his word they shall go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he, and all the children of Israel with him, even all the congregation.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Moses did as Yahweh commanded him. He took Joshua, and set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation. <a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He laid his hands on him, and commissioned him, as Yahweh spoke by Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>