<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, with Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took some men. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They rose up before Moses, with some of the children of Israel, two hundred fifty princes of the congregation, called to the assembly, men of renown. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said to them, “You take too much on yourself, since all the congregation are holy, everyone of them, and Yahweh is among them! Why do you lift yourselves up above Yahweh’s assembly?”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When Moses heard it, he fell on his face. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He said to Korah and to all his company, “In the morning, Yahweh will show who are his, and who is holy, and will cause him to come near to him. Even him whom he shall choose, he will cause to come near to him. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Do this: take censers, Korah, and all his company; <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and put fire in them, and put incense on them before Yahweh tomorrow. It shall be that the man whom Yahweh chooses, he shall be holy. You have gone too far, you sons of Levi!”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Moses said to Korah, “Hear now, you sons of Levi! <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is it a small thing to you, that the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself, to do the service of Yahweh’s tabernacle, and to stand before the congregation to minister to them; <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and that he has brought you near, and all your brothers the sons of Levi with you? Do you seek the priesthood also? <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore you and all your company have gathered together against Yahweh! What is Aaron that you murmur against him?”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab; and they said, “We won’t come up! <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Is it a small thing that you have brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, but you must also make yourself a prince over us? <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Moreover you haven’t brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance of fields and vineyards. Will you put out the eyes of these men? We won’t come up.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Moses was very angry, and said to Yahweh, “Don’t respect their offering. I have not taken one donkey from them, neither have I hurt one of them.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moses said to Korah, “You and all your company go before Yahweh, you, and they, and Aaron, tomorrow. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Each man take his censer, and put incense on them, and each man bring before Yahweh his censer, two hundred fifty censers; you also, and Aaron, each his censer.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They each took his censer, and put fire in them, and laid incense on it, and stood at the door of the Tent of Meeting with Moses and Aaron. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Korah assembled all the congregation opposite them to the door of the Tent of Meeting.</p>

<p>Yahweh’s glory appeared to all the congregation. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment!”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They fell on their faces, and said, “God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and will you be angry with all the congregation?”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “Speak to the congregation, saying, ‘Get away from around the tent of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram!’”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Moses rose up and went to Dathan and Abiram; and the elders of Israel followed him. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He spoke to the congregation, saying, “Depart, please, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest you be consumed in all their sins!”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> So they went away from the tent of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, on every side. Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood at the door of their tents, with their wives, their sons, and their little ones.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Moses said, “Hereby you shall know that Yahweh has sent me to do all these works; for they are not from my own mind. <a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> If these men die the common death of all men, or if they experience what all men experience, then Yahweh hasn’t sent me. <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But if Yahweh makes a new thing, and the ground opens its mouth, and swallows them up, with all that belong to them, and they go down alive into Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> ; then you shall understand that these men have despised Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> As he finished speaking all these words, the ground that was under them split apart. <a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up, with their households, all of Korah’s men, and all their goods. <a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> So they, and all that belonged to them went down alive into Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> The earth closed on them, and they perished from among the assembly. <a id="c16_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> All Israel that were around them fled at their cry; for they said, “Lest the earth swallow us up!” <a id="c16_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Fire came out from Yahweh, and devoured the two hundred fifty men who offered the incense.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c16_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> “Speak to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he take up the censers out of the burning, and scatter the fire away from the camp; for they are holy, <a id="c16_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> even the censers of these sinners against their own lives. Let them be made beaten plates for a covering of the altar, for they offered them before Yahweh. Therefore they are holy. They shall be a sign to the children of Israel.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Eleazar the priest took the bronze censers, which those who were burned had offered; and they beat them out for a covering of the altar, <a id="c16_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> to be a memorial to the children of Israel, to the end that no stranger, who isn’t of the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> of Aaron, would come near to burn incense before Yahweh, that he not be as Korah, and as his company; as Yahweh spoke to him by Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> But on the next day all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, “You have killed Yahweh’s people!”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> When the congregation was assembled against Moses and against Aaron, They looked toward the Tent of Meeting. Behold, the cloud covered it, and Yahweh’s glory appeared. <a id="c16_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Moses and Aaron came to the front of the Tent of Meeting. <a id="c16_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c16_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> “Get away from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment!” They fell on their faces.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Moses said to Aaron, “Take your censer, and put fire from off the altar in it, and lay incense on it, and carry it quickly to the congregation, and make atonement for them; for wrath has gone out from Yahweh! The plague has begun.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Aaron did as Moses said, and ran into the middle of the assembly. Behold, the plague has begun among the people. He put on the incense, and made atonement for the people. <a id="c16_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> He stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed. <a id="c16_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Now those who died by the plague were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, besides those who died about the matter of Korah. <a id="c16_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Aaron returned to Moses to the door of the Tent of Meeting, and the plague was stopped.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>