<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you have come into the land of your habitations, which I give to you, <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and will make an offering by fire to Yahweh, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or as a freewill offering, or in your set feasts, to make a pleasant aroma to Yahweh, of the herd, or of the flock; <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> then he who offers his offering shall offer to Yahweh a meal offering of one tenth of an ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of fine flour mixed with the fourth part of a hin of oil. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You shall prepare wine for the drink offering, the fourth part of a hin, with the burnt offering, or for the sacrifice, for each lamb.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “‘Or for a ram, you shall prepare for a meal offering two tenths of an ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of fine flour mixed with the third part of a hin of oil; <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and for the drink offering you shall offer the third part of a hin of wine, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When you prepare a bull for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice, to accomplish a vow, or for peace offerings to Yahweh; <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> then shall he offer with the bull a meal offering of three tenths of an ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> of fine flour mixed with half a hin of oil: <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and you shall offer for the drink offering half a hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus shall it be done for each bull, or for each ram, or for each of the male lambs, or of the young goats. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> According to the number that you shall prepare, so you shall do to everyone according to their number.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “‘All who are native-born shall do these things in this way, in offering an offering made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If a stranger lives as a foreigner with you, or whoever may be among you throughout your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh; as you do, so he shall do. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For the assembly, there shall be one statute for you and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner, a statute forever throughout your generations. As you are, so shall the foreigner be before Yahweh. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> One law and one ordinance shall be for you, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner with you.’”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you come into the land where I bring you, <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> then it shall be that when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall offer up a wave offering to Yahweh. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Of the first of your dough you shall offer up a cake for a wave offering. As the wave offering of the threshing floor, so you shall heave it. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Of the first of your dough, you shall give to Yahweh a wave offering throughout your generations.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “‘When you err, and don’t observe all these commandments, which Yahweh has spoken to Moses, <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> even all that Yahweh has commanded you by Moses, from the day that Yahweh gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations; <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> then it shall be, if it was done unwittingly, without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bull for a burnt offering, for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh, with its meal offering, and its drink offering, according to the ordinance, and one male goat for a sin offering. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and they shall be forgiven; for it was an error, and they have brought their offering, an offering made by fire to Yahweh, and their sin offering before Yahweh, for their error. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All the congregation of the children of Israel shall be forgiven, as well as the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them; for with regard to all the people, it was done unwittingly.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “‘If one person sins unwittingly, then he shall offer a female goat a year old for a sin offering. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The priest shall make atonement for the soul who errs, when he sins unwittingly before Yahweh, to make atonement for him; and he shall be forgiven. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> You shall have one law for him who does anything unwittingly, for him who is native-born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger who lives as a foreigner among them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “‘But the soul who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native-born or a foreigner, the same blasphemes Yahweh. That soul shall be cut off from among his people. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Because he has despised Yahweh’s word, and has broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off. His iniquity shall be on him.’”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> While the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath day. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They put him in custody, because it had not been declared what should be done to him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Yahweh said to Moses, “The man shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him with stones outside of the camp.” <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> All the congregation brought him outside of the camp, and stoned him to death with stones, as Yahweh commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them that they should make themselves fringes<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put on the fringe<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> of each border a cord of blue: <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and it shall be to you for a fringe,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> that you may look on it, and remember all Yahweh’s commandments, and do them; and that you not follow after your own heart and your own eyes, after which you use to play the prostitute; <a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> that you may remember and do all my commandments, and be holy to your God. <a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am Yahweh your God.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, tassels (Hebrew tzitzit)</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>or, tassel</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>or, tassel</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>