<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Balaam said to Balak, “Build here seven altars for me, and prepare here seven bulls and seven rams for me.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Balak did as Balaam had spoken; and Balak and Balaam offered on every altar a bull and a ram. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Balaam said to Balak, “Stand by your burnt offering, and I will go. Perhaps Yahweh will come to meet me. Whatever he shows me I will tell you.”</p>

<p>He went to a bare height. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> God met Balaam, and he said to him, “I have prepared the seven altars, and I have offered up a bull and a ram on every altar.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yahweh put a word in Balaam’s mouth, and said, “Return to Balak, and thus you shall speak.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He returned to him, and behold, he was standing by his burnt offering, he, and all the princes of Moab. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He took up his parable, and said,</p>

<p>“From Aram has Balak brought me,</p>

<p>the king of Moab from the mountains of the East.</p>

<p>Come, curse Jacob for me.</p>

<p>Come, defy Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How shall I curse whom God has not cursed?</p>

<p>How shall I defy whom Yahweh has not defied?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For from the top of the rocks I see him.</p>

<p>From the hills I see him.</p>

<p>Behold, it is a people that dwells alone,</p>

<p>and shall not be listed among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who can count the dust of Jacob,</p>

<p>or count the fourth part of Israel?</p>

<p>Let me die the death of the righteous!</p>

<p>Let my last end be like his!”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have blessed them altogether.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He answered and said, “Must I not take heed to speak that which Yahweh puts in my mouth?”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Balak said to him, “Please come with me to another place, where you may see them. You shall see just part of them, and shall not see them all. Curse them from there for me.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He took him into the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered up a bull and a ram on every altar. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He said to Balak, “Stand here by your burnt offering, while I meet over there.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said, “Return to Balak, and say this.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He came to him, and behold, he was standing by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. Balak said to him, “What has Yahweh spoken?”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He took up his parable, and said,</p>

<p>“Rise up, Balak, and hear!</p>

<p>Listen to me, you son of Zippor.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God is not a man, that he should lie,</p>

<p>nor the son of man, that he should repent.</p>

<p>Has he said, and will he not do it?</p>

<p>Or has he spoken, and will he not make it good?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, I have received a command to bless.</p>

<p>He has blessed, and I can’t reverse it.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He has not seen iniquity in Jacob.</p>

<p>Neither has he seen perverseness in Israel.</p>

<p>Yahweh his God is with him.</p>

<p>The shout of a king is among them.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> God brings them out of Egypt.</p>

<p>He has as it were the strength of the wild ox.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Surely there is no enchantment with Jacob;</p>

<p>Neither is there any divination with Israel.</p>

<p>Now it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel,</p>

<p>‘What has God done!’</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Behold, the people rises up as a lioness.</p>

<p>As a lion he lifts himself up.</p>

<p>He shall not lie down until he eats of the prey,</p>

<p>and drinks the blood of the slain.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Balak said to Balaam, “Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But Balaam answered Balak, “Didn’t I tell you, saying, ‘All that Yahweh speaks, that I must do?’”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Balak said to Balaam, “Come now, I will take you to another place; perhaps it will please God that you may curse them for me from there.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Balak took Balaam to the top of Peor, that looks down on the desert. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Balaam said to Balak, “Build seven altars for me here, and prepare seven bulls and seven rams for me here.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered up a bull and a ram on every altar.</p>

</body>
</html>