<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These are the journeys of the children of Israel, when they went out of the land of Egypt by their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of Yahweh. These are their journeys according to their goings out. <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They traveled from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the next day after the Passover, the children of Israel went out with a high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians, <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> while the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn, whom Yahweh had struck among them. Yahweh also executed judgments on their gods. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The children of Israel traveled from Rameses, and encamped in Succoth. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They traveled from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, which is in the edge of the wilderness. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They traveled from Etham, and turned back to Pihahiroth, which is before Baal Zephon: and they encamped before Migdol. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They traveled from before Hahiroth, and crossed through the middle of the sea into the wilderness. They went three days’ journey in the wilderness of Etham, and encamped in Marah. <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They traveled from Marah, and came to Elim. In Elim, there were twelve springs of water, and seventy palm trees; and they encamped there. <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They traveled from Elim, and encamped by the Red Sea. <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They traveled from the Red Sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They traveled from the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah. <a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They traveled from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush. <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They traveled from Alush, and encamped in Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink. <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They traveled from Rephidim, and encamped in the wilderness of Sinai. <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They traveled from the wilderness of Sinai, and encamped in Kibroth Hattaavah. <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They traveled from Kibroth Hattaavah, and encamped in Hazeroth. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They traveled from Hazeroth, and encamped in Rithmah. <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They traveled from Rithmah, and encamped in Rimmon Perez. <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They traveled from Rimmon Perez, and encamped in Libnah. <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They traveled from Libnah, and encamped in Rissah. <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They traveled from Rissah, and encamped in Kehelathah. <a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They traveled from Kehelathah, and encamped in Mount Shepher. <a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They traveled from Mount Shepher, and encamped in Haradah. <a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They traveled from Haradah, and encamped in Makheloth. <a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They traveled from Makheloth, and encamped in Tahath. <a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They traveled from Tahath, and encamped in Terah. <a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They traveled from Terah, and encamped in Mithkah. <a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> They traveled from Mithkah, and encamped in Hashmonah. <a id="c33_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They traveled from Hashmonah, and encamped in Moseroth. <a id="c33_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> They traveled from Moseroth, and encamped in Bene Jaakan. <a id="c33_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> They traveled from Bene Jaakan, and encamped in Hor Haggidgad. <a id="c33_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> They traveled from Hor Haggidgad, and encamped in Jotbathah. <a id="c33_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They traveled from Jotbathah, and encamped in Abronah. <a id="c33_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> They traveled from Abronah, and encamped in Ezion Geber. <a id="c33_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> They traveled from Ezion Geber, and encamped at Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin. <a id="c33_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> They traveled from Kadesh, and encamped in Mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom. <a id="c33_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Aaron the priest went up into Mount Hor at the commandment of Yahweh, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel had come out of the land of Egypt, in the fifth month, on the first day of the month. <a id="c33_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Aaron was one hundred twenty-three years old when he died in Mount Hor. <a id="c33_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The Canaanite, the king of Arad, who lived in the South in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel. <a id="c33_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> They traveled from Mount Hor, and encamped in Zalmonah. <a id="c33_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They traveled from Zalmonah, and encamped in Punon. <a id="c33_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> They traveled from Punon, and encamped in Oboth. <a id="c33_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> They traveled from Oboth, and encamped in Iye Abarim, in the border of Moab. <a id="c33_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> They traveled from Iyim, and encamped in Dibon Gad. <a id="c33_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> They traveled from Dibon Gad, and encamped in Almon Diblathaim. <a id="c33_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> They traveled from Almon Diblathaim, and encamped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo. <a id="c33_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> They traveled from the mountains of Abarim, and encamped in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho. <a id="c33_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> They encamped by the Jordan, from Beth Jeshimoth even to Abel Shittim in the plains of Moab. <a id="c33_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying, <a id="c33_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, “When you pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan, <a id="c33_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> then you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, destroy all their stone idols, destroy all their molten images, and demolish all their high places. <a id="c33_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> You shall take possession of the land, and dwell therein; for I have given the land to you to possess it. <a id="c33_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> You shall inherit the land by lot according to your families; to the more you shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer you shall give the less inheritance. Wherever the lot falls to any man, that shall be his. You shall inherit according to the tribes of your fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> “But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then those you let remain of them will be as pricks in your eyes and as thorns in your sides, and they will harass you in the land in which you dwell. <a id="c33_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> It shall happen that as I thought to do to them, so will I do to you.”</p>

</body>
</html>