<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The heads of the fathers’ households of the family of the children of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near, and spoke before Moses, and before the princes, the heads of the fathers’ households of the children of Israel. <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They said, “Yahweh commanded my lord to give the land for inheritance by lot to the children of Israel. My lord was commanded by Yahweh to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters. <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If they are married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the children of Israel, then will their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of our fathers, and will be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they shall belong. So will it be taken away from the lot of our inheritance. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When the jubilee of the children of Israel shall be, then will their inheritance be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they shall belong. So their inheritance will be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.”</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Moses commanded the children of Israel according to Yahweh’s word, saying, “The tribe of the sons of Joseph speaks right. <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This is the thing which Yahweh does command concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, ‘Let them be married to whom they think best; only they shall marry into the family of the tribe of their father. <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So shall no inheritance of the children of Israel move from tribe to tribe; for the children of Israel shall all keep the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers. <a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Every daughter who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel shall be wife to one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may each possess the inheritance of his fathers. <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So shall no inheritance move from one tribe to another tribe; for the tribes of the children of Israel shall each keep his own inheritance.’”</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The daughters of Zelophehad did as Yahweh commanded Moses: <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married to their father’s brothers’ sons. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They were married into the families of the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph. Their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father. <a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These are the commandments and the ordinances which Yahweh commanded by Moses to the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.</p>

</body>
</html>