<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying, <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Command the children of Israel to give to the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in. You shall give suburbs for the cities around them to the Levites. <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They shall have the cities to dwell in. Their suburbs shall be for their livestock, and for their possessions, and for all their animals.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “The suburbs of the cities, which you shall give to the Levites, shall be from the wall of the city and outward one thousand cubits<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> around it. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You shall measure outside of the city for the east side two thousand cubits, and for the south side two thousand cubits, and for the west side two thousand cubits, and for the north side two thousand cubits, the city being in the middle. This shall be the suburbs of their cities.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “The cities which you shall give to the Levites, they shall be the six cities of refuge, which you shall give for the man slayer to flee to. Besides them you shall give forty-two cities. <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the cities which you shall give to the Levites shall be forty-eight cities together with their suburbs. <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Concerning the cities which you shall give of the possession of the children of Israel, from the many you shall take many; and from the few you shall take few. Everyone according to his inheritance which he inherits shall give some of his cities to the Levites.” <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, ‘When you pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan, <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> then you shall appoint for yourselves cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the man slayer who kills any person unwittingly may flee there. <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The cities shall be to you for refuge from the avenger, that the man slayer not die, until he stands before the congregation for judgment. <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The cities which you shall give shall be for you six cities of refuge. <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You shall give three cities beyond the Jordan, and you shall give three cities in the land of Canaan. They shall be cities of refuge. <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For the children of Israel, and for the stranger and for the foreigner living among them, shall these six cities be for refuge; that everyone who kills any person unwittingly may flee there.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “‘But if he struck him with an instrument of iron, so that he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall surely be put to death. <a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If he struck him with a stone in the hand, by which a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall surely be put to death. <a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Or if he struck him with a weapon of wood in the hand, by which a man may die, and he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall surely be put to death. <a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The avenger of blood shall himself put the murderer to death. When he meets him, he shall put him to death. <a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If he shoved him out of hatred, or hurled at him, lying in wait, so that he died, <a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> or in hostility struck him with his hand, so that he died, he who struck him shall surely be put to death. He is a murderer. The avenger of blood shall put the murderer to death, when he meets him.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “‘But if he shoved him suddenly without hostility, or hurled on him anything without lying in wait, <a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> or with any stone, by which a man may die, not seeing him, and cast it on him, so that he died, and he was not his enemy, neither sought his harm; <a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> then the congregation shall judge between the striker and the avenger of blood according to these ordinances. <a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The congregation shall deliver the man slayer out of the hand of the avenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to his city of refuge, where he had fled. He shall dwell therein until the death of the high priest, who was anointed with the holy oil.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “‘But if the man slayer shall at any time go beyond the border of his city of refuge, where he flees, <a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and the avenger of blood finds him outside of the border of his city of refuge, and the avenger of blood kills the man slayer; he shall not be guilty of blood, <a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> because he should have remained in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest. But after the death of the high priest, the man slayer shall return into the land of his possession.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “‘These things shall be for a statute and ordinance to you throughout your generations in all your dwellings.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “‘Whoever kills any person, the murderer shall be slain at the mouth of witnesses; but one witness shall not testify against any person that he die.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “‘Moreover you shall take no ransom for the life of a murderer who is guilty of death; but he shall surely be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> “‘You shall take no ransom for him who is fled to his city of refuge, that he may come again to dwell in the land, until the death of the priest.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> “‘So you shall not pollute the land in which you are; for blood pollutes the land. No atonement can be made for the land for the blood that is shed in it, but by the blood of him who shed it. <a id="c35_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> You shall not defile the land which you inhabit, in the middle of which I dwell; for I, Yahweh, dwell in the middle of the children of Israel.’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>