<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Balaam saw that it pleased Yahweh to bless Israel, he didn’t go, as at the other times, to meet with enchantments, but he set his face toward the wilderness. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Balaam lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel dwelling according to their tribes; and the Spirit of God came on him. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He took up his parable, and said,</p>

<p>“Balaam the son of Beor says,</p>

<p>the man whose eyes are open says;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> he says, who hears the words of God,</p>

<p>who sees the vision of the Almighty,</p>

<p>falling down, and having his eyes open:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How goodly are your tents, Jacob,</p>

<p>and your tents, Israel!</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As valleys they are spread out,</p>

<p>as gardens by the riverside,</p>

<p>as aloes which Yahweh has planted,</p>

<p>as cedar trees beside the waters.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Water shall flow from his buckets.</p>

<p>His seed shall be in many waters.</p>

<p>His king shall be higher than Agag.</p>

<p>His kingdom shall be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> God brings him out of Egypt.</p>

<p>He has as it were the strength of the wild ox.</p>

<p>He shall eat up the nations his adversaries,</p>

<p>shall break their bones in pieces,</p>

<p>and pierce them with his arrows.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He couched, he lay down as a lion,</p>

<p>as a lioness; who shall rouse him up?</p>

<p>Everyone who blesses you is blessed.</p>

<p>Everyone who curses you is cursed.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Balak’s anger burned against Balaam, and he struck his hands together. Balak said to Balaam, “I called you to curse my enemies, and, behold, you have altogether blessed them these three times. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore now flee you to your place! I thought to promote you to great honor; but, behold, Yahweh has kept you back from honor.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Balaam said to Balak, “Didn’t I also tell your messengers who you sent to me, saying, <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> ‘If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I can’t go beyond Yahweh’s word, to do either good or bad of my own mind. I will say what Yahweh says’? <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now, behold, I go to my people. Come, I will inform you what this people shall do to your people in the latter days.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He took up his parable, and said,</p>

<p>“Balaam the son of Beor says,</p>

<p>the man whose eyes are open says;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> he says, who hears the words of God,</p>

<p>knows the knowledge of the Most High,</p>

<p>and who sees the vision of the Almighty,</p>

<p>Falling down, and having his eyes open:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I see him, but not now.</p>

<p>I see him, but not near.</p>

<p>A star will come out of Jacob.</p>

<p>A scepter will rise out of Israel,</p>

<p>and shall strike through the corners of Moab,</p>

<p>and break down all the sons of Sheth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Edom shall be a possession.</p>

<p>Seir, his enemies, also shall be a possession,</p>

<p>while Israel does valiantly.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Out of Jacob shall one have dominion,</p>

<p>and shall destroy the remnant from the city.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He looked at Amalek, and took up his parable, and said,</p>

<p>“Amalek was the first of the nations,</p>

<p>But his latter end shall come to destruction.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He looked at the Kenite, and took up his parable, and said,</p>

<p>“Your dwelling place is strong.</p>

<p>Your nest is set in the rock.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Nevertheless Kain shall be wasted,</p>

<p>until Asshur carries you away captive.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He took up his parable, and said,</p>

<p>“Alas, who shall live when God does this?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But ships shall come from the coast of Kittim.</p>

<p>They shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber.</p>

<p>He also shall come to destruction.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place; and Balak also went his way.</p>

</body>
</html>