<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After the plague, Yahweh spoke to Moses and to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying, <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Take a census of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, by their fathers’ houses, all who are able to go out to war in Israel.” <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying, <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Take a census, from twenty years old and upward; as Yahweh commanded Moses and the children of Israel.”</p>

<p>These are those that came out of the land of Egypt. <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Reuben, the firstborn of Israel; the sons of Reuben: of Hanoch, the family of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites; <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> These are the families of the Reubenites; and those who were counted of them were forty-three thousand seven hundred thirty. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sons of Pallu: Eliab. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The sons of Eliab: Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. These are that Dathan and Abiram, who were called by the congregation, who rebelled against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they rebelled against Yahweh, <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died; at the time the fire devoured two hundred fifty men, and they became a sign. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Notwithstanding, the sons of Korah didn’t die. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The sons of Simeon after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites; <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites; of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty-two thousand two hundred. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sons of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites; <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites; <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites. <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> These are the families of the sons of Gad according to those who were counted of them, forty thousand and five hundred. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sons of Judah: Er and Onan. Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The sons of Judah after their families were: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Perez, the family of the Perezites; of Zerah, the family of the Zerahites. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> These are the families of Judah according to those who were counted of them, seventy-six thousand five hundred. <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The sons of Issachar after their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the family of the Punites; <a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These are the families of Issachar according to those who were counted of them, sixty-four thousand three hundred. <a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Seredites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites. <a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those who were counted of them, sixty thousand five hundred. <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The sons of Joseph after their families: Manasseh and Ephraim. <a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites; and Machir became the father of Gilead; of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites. <a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> These are the sons of Gilead: of Iezer, the family of the Iezerites; of Helek, the family of the Helekites; <a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; and Shechem, the family of the Shechemites; <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and Hepher, the family of the Hepherites. <a id="c26_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. <a id="c26_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> These are the families of Manasseh. Those who were counted of them were fifty-two thousand seven hundred. <a id="c26_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> These are the sons of Ephraim after their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the family of the Becherites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites. <a id="c26_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> These are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites. <a id="c26_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those who were counted of them, thirty-two thousand five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph after their families. <a id="c26_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> The sons of Benjamin after their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites; <a id="c26_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> of Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites. <a id="c26_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: the family of the Ardites; of Naaman, the family of the Naamites. <a id="c26_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> These are the sons of Benjamin after their families; and those who were counted of them were forty-five thousand six hundred. <a id="c26_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> These are the sons of Dan after their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan after their families. <a id="c26_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those who were counted of them, were sixty-four thousand four hundred. <a id="c26_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> The sons of Asher after their families: of Imnah, the family of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the family of the Ishvites; of Beriah, the family of the Berites. <a id="c26_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites. <a id="c26_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The name of the daughter of Asher was Serah. <a id="c26_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> These are the families of the sons of Asher according to those who were counted of them, fifty-three thousand and four hundred. <a id="c26_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> The sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites; <a id="c26_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites. <a id="c26_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> These are the families of Naphtali according to their families; and those who were counted of them were forty-five thousand four hundred. <a id="c26_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> These are those who were counted of the children of Israel, six hundred one thousand seven hundred thirty.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c26_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> “To these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names. <a id="c26_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> To the more you shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer you shall give the less inheritance. To everyone according to those who were counted of him shall his inheritance be given. <a id="c26_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Notwithstanding, the land shall be divided by lot. According to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit. <a id="c26_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> According to the lot shall their inheritance be divided between the more and the fewer.”</p>

<p><a id="c26_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> These are those who were counted of the Levites after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites. <a id="c26_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> These are the families of Levi: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korahites. Kohath became the father of Amram. <a id="c26_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> The name of Amram’s wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt. She bore to Amram Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister. <a id="c26_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> To Aaron were born Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar. <a id="c26_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> Nadab and Abihu died when they offered strange fire before Yahweh. <a id="c26_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> Those who were counted of them were twenty-three thousand, every male from a month old and upward; for they were not counted among the children of Israel, because there was no inheritance given them among the children of Israel. <a id="c26_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> These are those who were counted by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who counted the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho. <a id="c26_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> But among these there was not a man of them who were counted by Moses and Aaron the priest, who counted the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai. <a id="c26_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> For Yahweh had said of them, “They shall surely die in the wilderness.” There was not a man left of them, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.</p>

</body>
</html>