<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “‘In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no regular work: it is a day of blowing of trumpets to you. <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You shall offer a burnt offering for a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without defect; <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths for the bull, two tenths for the ram, <a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and one tenth for every lamb of the seven lambs; <a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you; <a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> besides the burnt offering of the new moon, and its meal offering, and the continual burnt offering and its meal offering, and their drink offerings, according to their ordinance, for a pleasant aroma, an offering made by fire to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “‘On the tenth day of this seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall afflict your souls. You shall do no kind of work; <a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but you shall offer a burnt offering to Yahweh for a pleasant aroma: one young bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old; all without defect; <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths for the bull, two tenths for the one ram, <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> one tenth for every lamb of the seven lambs: <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> one male goat for a sin offering; besides the sin offering of atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and its meal offering, and their drink offerings.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall do no regular work. You shall keep a feast to Yahweh seven days. <a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You shall offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: thirteen young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old; all without defect; <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and their meal offering, fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths for every bull of the thirteen bulls, two tenths for each ram of the two rams, <a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and one tenth for every lamb of the fourteen lambs; <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, its meal offering, and its drink offering.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “‘On the second day you shall offer twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without defect; <a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance; <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, with its meal offering and their drink offerings.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “‘On the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without defect; <a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance; <a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, and its meal offering, and its drink offering.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “‘On the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without defect; <a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance; <a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, its meal offering, and its drink offering.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “‘On the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without defect; <a id="c29_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance; <a id="c29_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, and its meal offering, and its drink offering.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “‘On the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without defect; <a id="c29_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance; <a id="c29_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, its meal offering, and the drink offerings of it.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> “‘On the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without defect; <a id="c29_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number, after the ordinance; <a id="c29_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and one male goat for a sin offering; besides the continual burnt offering, its meal offering, and its drink offering.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> “‘On the eighth day you shall have a solemn assembly: you shall do no regular work; <a id="c29_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> but you shall offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, of a pleasant aroma to Yahweh: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without defect; <a id="c29_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> their meal offering and their drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the ordinance: <a id="c29_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and one male goat for a sin offering, besides the continual burnt offering, with its meal offering, and its drink offering.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> “‘You shall offer these to Yahweh in your set feasts, besides your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meal offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.’”</p>

<p><a id="c29_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Moses told the children of Israel according to all that Yahweh commanded Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>