<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear, Israel! You are to pass over the Jordan today, to go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourself, cities great and fortified up to the sky, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> a people great and tall, the sons of the Anakim, whom you know, and of whom you have heard say, “Who can stand before the sons of Anak?” <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Know therefore today, that Yahweh your God is he who goes over before you as a devouring fire. He will destroy them, and he will bring them down before you. So you shall drive them out, and make them perish quickly, as Yahweh has spoken to you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Don’t say in your heart, after Yahweh your God has thrust them out from before you, saying, “For my righteousness Yahweh has brought me in to possess this land”; because Yahweh drives them out before you because of the wickedness of these nations. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Not for your righteousness, or for the uprightness of your heart, do you go in to possess their land; but for the wickedness of these nations Yahweh your God does drive them out from before you, and that he may establish the word which Yahweh swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Know therefore, that Yahweh your God doesn’t give you this good land to possess for your righteousness; for you are a stiff-necked people. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember, and don’t forget, how you provoked Yahweh your God to wrath in the wilderness. From the day that you left the land of Egypt, until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against Yahweh. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Also in Horeb you provoked Yahweh to wrath, and Yahweh was angry with you to destroy you. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When I had gone up onto the mountain to receive the stone tablets, even the tablets of the covenant which Yahweh made with you, then I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yahweh delivered to me the two stone tablets written with God’s finger. On them were all the words which Yahweh spoke with you on the mountain out of the middle of the fire in the day of the assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> It came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights, that Yahweh gave me the two stone tablets, even the tablets of the covenant. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh said to me, “Arise, get down quickly from here; for your people whom you have brought out of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have quickly turned aside out of the way which I commanded them. They have made a molten image for themselves!”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Furthermore Yahweh spoke to me, saying, “I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Leave me alone, that I may destroy them, and blot out their name from under the sky; and I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain was burning with fire. The two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I looked, and behold, you had sinned against Yahweh your God. You had made yourselves a molten calf. You had turned aside quickly out of the way which Yahweh had commanded you. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I took hold of the two tablets, and threw them out of my two hands, and broke them before your eyes. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I fell down before Yahweh, as at the first, forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water, because of all your sin which you sinned, in doing that which was evil in Yahweh’s sight, to provoke him to anger. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure with which Yahweh was angry against you to destroy you. But Yahweh listened to me that time also. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yahweh was angry enough with Aaron to destroy him. I prayed for Aaron also at the same time. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I took your sin, the calf which you had made, and burned it with fire, and crushed it, grinding it very small, until it was as fine as dust. I threw its dust into the brook that descended out of the mountain. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibroth Hattaavah, you provoked Yahweh to wrath. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> When Yahweh sent you from Kadesh Barnea, saying, “Go up and possess the land which I have given you,” you rebelled against the commandment of Yahweh your God, and you didn’t believe him, nor listen to his voice. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> You have been rebellious against Yahweh from the day that I knew you. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> So I fell down before Yahweh the forty days and forty nights that I fell down, because Yahweh had said he would destroy you. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I prayed to Yahweh, and said, “Lord Yahweh, don’t destroy your people and your inheritance, that you have redeemed through your greatness, that you have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Don’t look at the stubbornness of this people, nor at their wickedness, nor at their sin, <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> lest the land you brought us out from say, ‘Because Yahweh was not able to bring them into the land which he promised to them, and because he hated them, he has brought them out to kill them in the wilderness.’ <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Yet they are your people and your inheritance, which you brought out by your great power and by your outstretched arm.”</p>

</body>
</html>