<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This is the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He said,</p>

<p>“Yahweh came from Sinai,</p>

<p>and rose from Seir to them.</p>

<p>He shone from Mount Paran.</p>

<p>He came from the ten thousands of holy ones.</p>

<p>At his right hand was a fiery law for them.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yes, he loves the people.</p>

<p>All his saints are in your hand.</p>

<p>They sat down at your feet.</p>

<p>Each receives your words.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Moses commanded us a law,</p>

<p>an inheritance for the assembly of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He was king in Jeshurun,</p>

<p>when the heads of the people were gathered,</p>

<p>all the tribes of Israel together.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Let Reuben live, and not die;</p>

<p>Nor let his men be few.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> This is for Judah. He said,</p>

<p>“Hear, Yahweh, the voice of Judah.</p>

<p>Bring him in to his people.</p>

<p>With his hands he contended for himself.</p>

<p>You shall be a help against his adversaries.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> About Levi he said,</p>

<p>“Your Thummim and your Urim are with your godly one,</p>

<p>whom you proved at Massah,</p>

<p>with whom you contended at the waters of Meribah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He said of his father, and of his mother, ‘I have not seen him.’</p>

<p>He didn’t acknowledge his brothers,</p>

<p>nor did he know his own children;</p>

<p>for they have observed your word,</p>

<p>and keep your covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They shall teach Jacob your ordinances,</p>

<p>and Israel your law.</p>

<p>They shall put incense before you,</p>

<p>and whole burnt offering on your altar.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh, bless his skills.</p>

<p>Accept the work of his hands.</p>

<p>Strike through the hips of those who rise up against him,</p>

<p>of those who hate him, that they not rise again.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> About Benjamin he said,</p>

<p>“The beloved of Yahweh will dwell in safety by him.</p>

<p>He covers him all day long.</p>

<p>He dwells between his shoulders.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> About Joseph he said,</p>

<p>“His land is blessed by Yahweh,</p>

<p>for the precious things of the heavens, for the dew,</p>

<p>for the deep that couches beneath,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for the precious things of the fruits of the sun,</p>

<p>for the precious things that the moon can yield,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for the best things of the ancient mountains,</p>

<p>for the precious things of the everlasting hills,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for the precious things of the earth and its fullness,</p>

<p>the good will of him who lived in the bush.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>Let this come on the head of Joseph,</p>

<p>on the crown of the head of him who was separated from his brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The firstborn of his herd, majesty is his.</p>

<p>His horns are the horns of the wild ox.</p>

<p>With them he will push all the peoples, to the ends of the earth.</p>

<p>They are the ten thousands of Ephraim.</p>

<p>They are the thousands of Manasseh.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> About Zebulun he said,</p>

<p>“Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out;</p>

<p>and Issachar, in your tents.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They will call the peoples to the mountain.</p>

<p>There they will offer sacrifices of righteousness,</p>

<p>for they will draw out the abundance of the seas,</p>

<p>the hidden treasures of the sand.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> About Gad he said,</p>

<p>“He who enlarges Gad is blessed.</p>

<p>He dwells as a lioness,</p>

<p>and tears the arm, yes, the crown of the head.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He provided the first part for himself,</p>

<p>for the lawgiver’s portion reserved was reserved for him.</p>

<p>He came with the heads of the people.</p>

<p>He executed the righteousness of Yahweh,</p>

<p>His ordinances with Israel.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> About Dan he said,</p>

<p>“Dan is a lion’s cub</p>

<p>that leaps out of Bashan.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> About Naphtali he said,</p>

<p>“Naphtali, satisfied with favor,</p>

<p>full of Yahweh’s blessing,</p>

<p>Possess the west and the south.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> About Asher he said,</p>

<p>“Asher is blessed with children.</p>

<p>Let him be acceptable to his brothers.</p>

<p>Let him dip his foot in oil.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Your bars will be iron and brass.</p>

<p>As your days, so your strength will be.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “There is no one like God, Jeshurun,</p>

<p>who rides on the heavens for your help,</p>

<p>in his excellency on the skies.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The eternal God is your dwelling place.</p>

<p>Underneath are the everlasting arms.</p>

<p>He thrust out the enemy from before you,</p>

<p>and said, ‘Destroy!’</p>

<p><a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Israel dwells in safety;</p>

<p>the fountain of Jacob alone,</p>

<p>In a land of grain and new wine.</p>

<p>Yes, his heavens drop down dew.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> You are happy, Israel!</p>

<p>Who is like you, a people saved by Yahweh,</p>

<p>the shield of your help,</p>

<p>the sword of your excellency?</p>

<p>Your enemies will submit themselves to you.</p>

<p>You will tread on their high places.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>another manuscript reads “He came with myriads of holy ones from the south, from his mountain slopes.”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>i.e., the burning bush of Exodus 3:3-4.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>