<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ear, you heavens, and I will speak.</p>

<p>Let the earth hear the words of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My doctrine will drop as the rain.</p>

<p>My speech will condense as the dew,</p>

<p>as the misty rain on the tender grass,</p>

<p>as the showers on the herb.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I will proclaim Yahweh’s name.</p>

<p>Ascribe greatness to our God!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Rock, his work is perfect,</p>

<p>for all his ways are just.</p>

<p>A God of faithfulness who does no wrong,</p>

<p>just and right is he.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have dealt corruptly with him.</p>

<p>They are not his children, because of their defect.</p>

<p>They are a perverse and crooked generation.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Is this the way you repay Yahweh,</p>

<p>foolish and unwise people?</p>

<p>Isn’t he your father who has bought you?</p>

<p>He has made you and established you.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember the days of old.</p>

<p>Consider the years of many generations.</p>

<p>Ask your father, and he will show you;</p>

<p>your elders, and they will tell you.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When the Most High gave to the nations their inheritance,</p>

<p>when he separated the children of men,</p>

<p>he set the bounds of the peoples</p>

<p>according to the number of the children of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For Yahweh’s portion is his people.</p>

<p>Jacob is the lot of his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He found him in a desert land,</p>

<p>in the waste howling wilderness.</p>

<p>He surrounded him.</p>

<p>He cared for him.</p>

<p>He kept him as the apple of his eye.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As an eagle that stirs up her nest,</p>

<p>that flutters over her young,</p>

<p>he spread abroad his wings,</p>

<p>he took them,</p>

<p>he bore them on his feathers.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh alone led him.</p>

<p>There was no foreign god with him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He made him ride on the high places of the earth.</p>

<p>He ate the increase of the field.</p>

<p>He caused him to suck honey out of the rock,</p>

<p>oil out of the flinty rock;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> butter from the herd, and milk from the flock,</p>

<p>with fat of lambs,</p>

<p>rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats,</p>

<p>with the finest of the wheat.</p>

<p>From the blood of the grape, you drank wine.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But Jeshurun grew fat, and kicked.</p>

<p>You have grown fat.</p>

<p>You have grown thick.</p>

<p>You have become sleek.</p>

<p>Then he abandoned God who made him,</p>

<p>and rejected the Rock of his salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They moved him to jealousy with strange gods.</p>

<p>They provoked him to anger with abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They sacrificed to demons, not God,</p>

<p>to gods that they didn’t know,</p>

<p>to new gods that came up recently,</p>

<p>which your fathers didn’t dread.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Of the Rock who became your father, you are unmindful,</p>

<p>and have forgotten God who gave you birth.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yahweh saw and abhorred,</p>

<p>because of the provocation of his sons and his daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He said, “I will hide my face from them.</p>

<p>I will see what their end will be;</p>

<p>for they are a very perverse generation,</p>

<p>children in whom is no faithfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They have moved me to jealousy with that which is not God.</p>

<p>They have provoked me to anger with their vanities.</p>

<p>I will move them to jealousy with those who are not a people.</p>

<p>I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For a fire is kindled in my anger,</p>

<p>that burns to the lowest Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>devours the earth with its increase,</p>

<p>and sets the foundations of the mountains on fire.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “I will heap evils on them.</p>

<p>I will spend my arrows on them.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They shall be wasted with hunger,</p>

<p>and devoured with burning heat</p>

<p>and bitter destruction.</p>

<p>I will send the teeth of animals on them,</p>

<p>with the venom of vipers that glide in the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Outside the sword will bereave,</p>

<p>and in the rooms, terror;</p>

<p>on both young man and virgin,</p>

<p>the nursing infant with the gray-haired man.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I said that I would scatter them afar.</p>

<p>I would make their memory to cease from among men;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> were it not that I feared the provocation of the enemy,</p>

<p>lest their adversaries should judge wrongly,</p>

<p>lest they should say, ‘Our hand is exalted,</p>

<p>Yahweh has not done all this.’”</p>

<p><a id="c32_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For they are a nation void of counsel.</p>

<p>There is no understanding in them.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Oh that they were wise, that they understood this,</p>

<p>that they would consider their latter end!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> How could one chase a thousand,</p>

<p>and two put ten thousand to flight,</p>

<p>unless their Rock had sold them,</p>

<p>and Yahweh had delivered them up?</p>

<p><a id="c32_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For their rock is not as our Rock,</p>

<p>even our enemies themselves concede.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For their vine is of the vine of Sodom,</p>

<p>of the fields of Gomorrah.</p>

<p>Their grapes are poison grapes.</p>

<p>Their clusters are bitter.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Their wine is the poison of serpents,</p>

<p>the cruel venom of asps.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> “Isn’t this laid up in store with me,</p>

<p>sealed up among my treasures?</p>

<p><a id="c32_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Vengeance is mine, and recompense,</p>

<p>at the time when their foot slides;</p>

<p>for the day of their calamity is at hand.</p>

<p>Their doom rushes at them.”</p>

<p><a id="c32_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For Yahweh will judge his people,</p>

<p>and have compassion on his servants,</p>

<p>when he sees that their power is gone;</p>

<p>that there is no one remaining, shut up or left at large.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> He will say, “Where are their gods,</p>

<p>the rock in which they took refuge;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> which ate the fat of their sacrifices,</p>

<p>and drank the wine of their drink offering?</p>

<p>Let them rise up and help you!</p>

<p>Let them be your protection.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> “See now that I myself am he.</p>

<p>There is no god with me.</p>

<p>I kill and I make alive.</p>

<p>I wound and I heal.</p>

<p>There is no one who can deliver out of my hand.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For I lift up my hand to heaven and declare,</p>

<p>as I live forever,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> if I sharpen my glittering sword,</p>

<p>my hand grasps it in judgment;</p>

<p>I will take vengeance on my adversaries,</p>

<p>and will repay those who hate me.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> I will make my arrows drunk with blood.</p>

<p>My sword shall devour flesh with the blood of the slain and the captives,</p>

<p>from the head of the leaders of the enemy.”</p>

<p><a id="c32_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Rejoice, you nations, with his people,</p>

<p>for he will avenge the blood of his servants.</p>

<p>He will take vengeance on his adversaries,</p>

<p>and will make atonement for his land and for his people.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c32_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Joshua the son of Nun. <a id="c32_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Moses finished reciting all these words to all Israel. <a id="c32_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He said to them, “Set your heart to all the words which I testify to you today, which you shall command your children to observe to do, all the words of this law. <a id="c32_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> For it is no vain thing for you; because it is your life, and through this thing you shall prolong your days in the land, where you go over the Jordan to possess it.”</p>

<p><a id="c32_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Yahweh spoke to Moses that same day, saying, <a id="c32_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> “Go up into this mountain of Abarim, to Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that is across from Jericho; and see the land of Canaan, which I give to the children of Israel for a possession. <a id="c32_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Die on the mountain where you go up, and be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother died on Mount Hor, and was gathered to his people; <a id="c32_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> because you trespassed against me among the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah of Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; because you didn’t uphold my holiness among the children of Israel. <a id="c32_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> For you shall see the land from a distance; but you shall not go there into the land which I give the children of Israel.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>For this verse, LXX reads: Rejoice, you heavens, with him, and let all the angels of God worship him; rejoice you Gentiles, with his people, and let all the sons of God strengthen themselves in him; for he will avenge the blood of his sons, and he will render vengeance, and recompense justice to his enemies, and will reward them that hate him; and the Lord shall purge the land of his people.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>