<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled themselves together at Shiloh, and set up the Tent of Meeting there. The land was subdued before them. <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Seven tribes remained among the children of Israel, which had not yet divided their inheritance. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Joshua said to the children of Israel, “How long will you neglect to go in to possess the land, which Yahweh, the God of your fathers, has given you? <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Appoint for yourselves three men from each tribe. I will send them, and they shall arise, walk through the land, and describe it according to their inheritance; and they shall come to me. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They shall divide it into seven portions. Judah shall live in his borders on the south, and the house of Joseph shall live in their borders on the north. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You shall survey the land into seven parts, and bring the description here to me; and I will cast lots for you here before Yahweh our God. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> However, the Levites have no portion among you; for the priesthood of Yahweh is their inheritance. Gad, Reuben, and the half-tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance east of the Jordan, which Moses the servant of Yahweh gave them.”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The men arose and went. Joshua commanded those who went to survey the land, saying, “Go walk through the land, survey it, and come again to me. I will cast lots for you here before Yahweh in Shiloh.”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The men went and passed through the land, and surveyed it by cities into seven portions in a book. They came to Joshua to the camp at Shiloh. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before Yahweh. There Joshua divided the land to the children of Israel according to their divisions.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families. The border of their lot went out between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Their border on the north quarter was from the Jordan. The border went up to the side of Jericho on the north, and went up through the hill country westward. It ended at the wilderness of Beth Aven. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The border passed along from there to Luz, to the side of Luz (also called Bethel), southward. The border went down to Ataroth Addar, by the mountain that lies on the south of Beth Horon the lower. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The border extended, and turned around on the west quarter southward, from the mountain that lies before Beth Horon southward; and ended at Kiriath Baal (also called Kiriath Jearim), a city of the children of Judah. This was the west quarter. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The south quarter was from the farthest part of Kiriath Jearim. The border went out westward, and went out to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The border went down to the farthest part of the mountain that lies before the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the valley of Rephaim northward. It went down to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite southward, and went down to En Rogel. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It extended northward, went out at En Shemesh, and went out to Geliloth, which is over against the ascent of Adummim. It went down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> It passed along to the side over against the Arabah northward, and went down to the Arabah. <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The border passed along to the side of Beth Hoglah northward; and the border ended at the north bay of the Salt Sea, at the south end of the Jordan. This was the south border. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The Jordan was its border on the east quarter. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, by the borders around it, according to their families. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho, Beth Hoglah, Emek Keziz, <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Beth Arabah, Zemaraim, Bethel, <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Avvim, Parah, Ophrah, <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Chephar Ammoni, Ophni, and Geba; twelve cities with their villages. <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth, <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Mizpeh, Chephirah, Mozah, <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah, <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Zelah, Eleph, the Jebusite (also called Jerusalem), Gibeath, and Kiriath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.</p>

</body>
</html>