<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These are the inheritances which the children of Israel took in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers’ houses of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed to them, <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> by the lot of their inheritance, as Yahweh commanded by Moses, for the nine tribes, and for the half-tribe. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Moses had given the inheritance of the two tribes and the half-tribe beyond the Jordan; but to the Levites he gave no inheritance among them. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. They gave no portion to the Levites in the land, except cities to dwell in, with their suburbs for their livestock and for their property. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The children of Israel did as Yahweh commanded Moses, and they divided the land.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then the children of Judah came near to Joshua in Gilgal. Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite said to him, “You know the thing that Yahweh spoke to Moses the man of God concerning me and concerning you in Kadesh Barnea. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I was forty years old when Moses the servant of Yahweh sent me from Kadesh Barnea to spy out the land. I brought him word again as it was in my heart. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Nevertheless, my brothers who went up with me made the heart of the people melt; but I wholly followed Yahweh my God. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Moses swore on that day, saying, ‘Surely the land where you walked shall be an inheritance to you and to your children forever, because you have wholly followed Yahweh my God.’</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Now, behold, Yahweh has kept me alive, as he spoke, these forty-five years, from the time that Yahweh spoke this word to Moses, while Israel walked in the wilderness. Now, behold, I am eighty-five years old, today. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As yet I am as strong today as I was in the day that Moses sent me. As my strength was then, even so is my strength now for war, to go out and to come in. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now therefore give me this hill country, of which Yahweh spoke in that day; for you heard in that day how the Anakim were there, and great and fortified cities. It may be that Yahweh will be with me, and I shall drive them out, as Yahweh said.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Joshua blessed him; and he gave Hebron to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for an inheritance. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite to this day, because he followed Yahweh, the God of Israel wholeheartedly. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now the name of Hebron before was Kiriath Arba, after the greatest man among the Anakim. Then the land had rest from war.</p>

</body>
</html>