<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The second lot came out for Simeon, even for the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families. Their inheritance was in the middle of the inheritance of the children of Judah. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They had for their inheritance Beersheba (or Sheba), Moladah, <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Hazar Shual, Balah, Ezem, <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah, <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ziklag, Beth Marcaboth, Hazar Susah, <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Beth Lebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities with their villages; <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan; four cities with their villages; <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and all the villages that were around these cities to Baalath Beer, Ramah of the South. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Out of the part of the children of Judah was the inheritance of the children of Simeon; for the portion of the children of Judah was too much for them. Therefore the children of Simeon had inheritance in the middle of their inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The third lot came up for the children of Zebulun according to their families. The border of their inheritance was to Sarid. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their border went up westward, even to Maralah, and reached to Dabbesheth. It reached to the brook that is before Jokneam. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It turned from Sarid eastward toward the sunrise to the border of Chisloth Tabor. It went out to Daberath, and went up to Japhia. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> From there it passed along eastward to Gath Hepher, to Ethkazin; and it went out at Rimmon which stretches to Neah. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The border turned around it on the north to Hannathon; and it ended at the valley of Iphtah El; <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem: twelve cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> This is the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according to their families, these cities with their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The fourth lot came out for Issachar, even for the children of Issachar according to their families. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their border was to Jezreel, Chesulloth, Shunem, <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath, <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez, <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Remeth, Engannim, En Haddah, and Beth Pazzez. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The border reached to Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth Shemesh. Their border ended at the Jordan: sixteen cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families, the cities with their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The fifth lot came out for the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Their border was Helkath, Hali, Beten, Achshaph, <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Allammelech, Amad, Mishal. It reached to Carmel westward, and to Shihorlibnath. <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> It turned toward the sunrise to Beth Dagon, and reached to Zebulun, and to the valley of Iphtah El northward to Beth Emek and Neiel. It went out to Cabul on the left hand, <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Ebron, Rehob, Hammon, and Kanah, even to great Sidon. <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The border turned to Ramah, to the fortified city of Tyre; and the border turned to Hosah. It ended at the sea by the region of Achzib; <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Ummah also, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty-two cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families, these cities with their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The sixth lot came out for the children of Naphtali, even for the children of Naphtali according to their families. <a id="c19_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Their border was from Heleph, from the oak in Zaanannim, Adami-nekeb, and Jabneel, to Lakkum. It ended at the Jordan. <a id="c19_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The border turned westward to Aznoth Tabor, and went out from there to Hukkok. It reached to Zebulun on the south, and reached to Asher on the west, and to Judah at the Jordan toward the sunrise. <a id="c19_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The fortified cities were Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Chinnereth, <a id="c19_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Adamah, Ramah, Hazor, <a id="c19_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Kedesh, Edrei, En Hazor, <a id="c19_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Iron, Migdal El, Horem, Beth Anath, and Beth Shemesh; nineteen cities with their villages. <a id="c19_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali according to their families, the cities with their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The seventh lot came out for the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families. <a id="c19_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The border of their inheritance was Zorah, Eshtaol, Irshemesh, <a id="c19_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah, <a id="c19_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Elon, Timnah, Ekron, <a id="c19_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath, <a id="c19_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Jehud, Bene Berak, Gath Rimmon, <a id="c19_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Me Jarkon, and Rakkon, with the border over against Joppa. <a id="c19_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> The border of the children of Dan went out beyond them; for the children of Dan went up and fought against Leshem, and took it, and struck it with the edge of the sword, and possessed it, and lived therein, and called Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dan their forefather. <a id="c19_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families, these cities with their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> So they finished distributing the land for inheritance by its borders. The children of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Nun among them. <a id="c19_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> According to Yahweh’s commandment, they gave him the city which he asked, even Timnathserah in the hill country of Ephraim; and he built the city, and lived there. <a id="c19_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> These are the inheritances, which Eleazar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers’ houses of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed for inheritance by lot in Shiloh before Yahweh, at the door of the Tent of Meeting. So they finished dividing the land.</p>

</body>
</html>