<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh said to Joshua, “Don’t be afraid, and don’t be dismayed. Take all the warriors with you, and arise, go up to Ai. Behold, I have given into your hand the king of Ai, with his people, his city, and his land. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You shall do to Ai and her king as you did to Jericho and her king, except you shall take its goods and its livestock for yourselves. Set an ambush for the city behind it.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So Joshua arose, with all the warriors, to go up to Ai. Joshua chose thirty thousand men, the mighty men of valor, and sent them out by night. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He commanded them, saying, “Behold, you shall lie in ambush against the city, behind the city. Don’t go very far from the city, but all of you be ready. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I and all the people who are with me will approach to the city. It shall happen, when they come out against us, as at the first, that we will flee before them. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They will come out after us, until we have drawn them away from the city; for they will say, ‘They flee before us, like the first time.’ So we will flee before them, <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and you shall rise up from the ambush, and take possession of the city; for Yahweh your God will deliver it into your hand. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It shall be, when you have seized the city, that you shall set the city on fire. You shall do this according to Yahweh’s word. Behold, I have commanded you.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Joshua sent them out; and they went to set up the ambush, and stayed between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of Ai; but Joshua stayed among the people that night. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Joshua rose up early in the morning, mustered the people, and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the people to Ai. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All the people, even the men of war who were with him, went up, and came near, and came before the city, and encamped on the north side of Ai. Now there was a valley between him and Ai. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He took about five thousand men, and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of the city. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So they set the people, even all the army who was on the north of the city, and their ambush on the west of the city; and Joshua went that night into the middle of the valley. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When the king of Ai saw it, they hurried and rose up early, and the men of the city went out against Israel to battle, he and all his people, at the time appointed, before the Arabah; but he didn’t know that there was an ambush against him behind the city. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and fled by the way of the wilderness. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All the people who were in the city were called together to pursue after them. They pursued Joshua, and were drawn away from the city. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There was not a man left in Ai or Beth El who didn’t go out after Israel. They left the city open, and pursued Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yahweh said to Joshua, “Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai, for I will give it into your hand.”</p>

<p>Joshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran as soon as he had stretched out his hand, and entered into the city, and took it. They hurried and set the city on fire. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When the men of Ai looked behind them, they saw, and behold, the smoke of the city ascended up to heaven, and they had no power to flee this way or that way. The people who fled to the wilderness turned back on the pursuers. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the city, and that the smoke of the city ascended, then they turned again, and killed the men of Ai. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The others came out of the city against them, so they were in the middle of Israel, some on this side, and some on that side. They struck them, so that they let none of them remain or escape. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They captured the king of Ai alive, and brought him to Joshua.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When Israel had finished killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness in which they pursued them, and they had all fallen by the edge of the sword, until they were consumed, all Israel returned to Ai, and struck it with the edge of the sword. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All that fell that day, both of men and women, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For Joshua didn’t draw back his hand, with which he stretched out the javelin, until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Israel took for themselves only the livestock and the goods of that city, according to Yahweh’s word which he commanded Joshua. <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> So Joshua burned Ai, and made it a heap forever, even a desolation, to this day. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He hanged the king of Ai on a tree until the evening, and at sundown Joshua commanded, and they took his body down from the tree, and threw it at the entrance of the gate of the city, and raised a great heap of stones on it that remains to this day.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then Joshua built an altar to Yahweh, the God of Israel, on Mount Ebal, <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> as Moses the servant of Yahweh commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, an altar of uncut stones, on which no one had lifted up any iron. They offered burnt offerings on it to Yahweh and sacrificed peace offerings. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He wrote there on the stones a copy of Moses’ law, which he wrote in the presence of the children of Israel. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> All Israel, their elders and officers, and their judges, stood on both sides of the ark before the priests the Levites, who carried the ark of Yahweh’s covenant, the foreigner as well as the native; half of them in front of Mount Gerizim, and half of them in front of Mount Ebal, as Moses the servant of Yahweh had commanded at the first, that they should bless the people of Israel. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according to all that is written in the book of the law. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> There was not a word of all that Moses commanded, which Joshua didn’t read before all the assembly of Israel, with the women, the little ones, and the foreigners who were among them.</p>

</body>
</html>