<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam sang on that day, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Because the leaders took the lead in Israel,</p>

<p>because the people offered themselves willingly,</p>

<p>be blessed, Yahweh!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Hear, you kings!</p>

<p>Give ear, you princes!</p>

<p>I, even I, will sing to Yahweh.</p>

<p>I will sing praise to Yahweh, the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Yahweh, when you went out of Seir,</p>

<p>when you marched out of the field of Edom,</p>

<p>the earth trembled, the sky also dropped.</p>

<p>Yes, the clouds dropped water.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The mountains quaked Yahweh’s presence,</p>

<p>even Sinai at the presence of Yahweh, the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath,</p>

<p>in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied.</p>

<p>The travelers walked through byways.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The rulers ceased in Israel.</p>

<p>They ceased until I, Deborah, arose;</p>

<p>Until I arose a mother in Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They chose new gods.</p>

<p>Then war was in the gates.</p>

<p>Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My heart is toward the governors of Israel,</p>

<p>who offered themselves willingly among the people.</p>

<p>Bless Yahweh!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Speak, you who ride on white donkeys,</p>

<p>you who sit on rich carpets,</p>

<p>and you who walk by the way.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Far from the noise of archers, in the places of drawing water,</p>

<p>there they will rehearse Yahweh’s righteous acts,</p>

<p>the righteous acts of his rule in Israel.</p>

<p>“Then Yahweh’s people went down to the gates.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> ‘Awake, awake, Deborah!</p>

<p>Awake, awake, utter a song!</p>

<p>Arise, Barak, and lead away your captives, you son of Abinoam.’</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “Then a remnant of the nobles and the people came down.</p>

<p>Yahweh came down for me against the mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Those whose root is in Amalek came out of Ephraim,</p>

<p>after you, Benjamin, among your peoples.</p>

<p>Governors come down out of Machir.</p>

<p>Those who handle the marshal’s staff came out of Zebulun.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The princes of Issachar were with Deborah.</p>

<p>As was Issachar, so was Barak.</p>

<p>They rushed into the valley at his feet.</p>

<p>By the watercourses of Reuben,</p>

<p>there were great resolves of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Why did you sit among the sheepfolds?</p>

<p>To hear the whistling for the flocks?</p>

<p>At the watercourses of Reuben,</p>

<p>there were great searchings of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Gilead lived beyond the Jordan.</p>

<p>Why did Dan remain in ships?</p>

<p>Asher sat still at the haven of the sea,</p>

<p>and lived by his creeks.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Zebulun was a people that jeopardized their lives to the death;</p>

<p>Naphtali also, on the high places of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “The kings came and fought,</p>

<p>then the kings of Canaan fought at Taanach by the waters of Megiddo.</p>

<p>They took no plunder of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> From the sky the stars fought.</p>

<p>From their courses, they fought against Sisera.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The river Kishon swept them away,</p>

<p>that ancient river, the river Kishon.</p>

<p>My soul, march on with strength.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then the horse hoofs stamped because of the prancing,</p>

<p>the prancing of their strong ones.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> ‘Curse Meroz,’ said Yahweh’s angel.</p>

<p>‘Curse bitterly its inhabitants,</p>

<p>because they didn’t come to help Yahweh,</p>

<p>to help Yahweh against the mighty.’</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “Jael shall be blessed above women,</p>

<p>the wife of Heber the Kenite;</p>

<p>blessed shall she be above women in the tent.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He asked for water.</p>

<p>She gave him milk.</p>

<p>She brought him butter in a lordly dish.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> She put her hand to the tent peg,</p>

<p>and her right hand to the workmen’s hammer.</p>

<p>With the hammer she struck Sisera.</p>

<p>She struck through his head.</p>

<p>Yes, she pierced and struck through his temples.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay.</p>

<p>At her feet he bowed, he fell.</p>

<p>Where he bowed, there he fell down dead.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> “Through the window she looked out, and cried:</p>

<p>Sisera’s mother looked through the lattice.</p>

<p>‘Why is his chariot so long in coming?</p>

<p>Why do the wheels of his chariots wait?’</p>

<p><a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Her wise ladies answered her,</p>

<p>Yes, she returned answer to herself,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> ‘Have they not found, have they not divided the plunder?</p>

<p>A lady, two ladies to every man;</p>

<p>to Sisera a plunder of dyed garments,</p>

<p>a plunder of dyed garments embroidered,</p>

<p>of dyed garments embroidered on both sides, on the necks of the plunder?’</p>

<p><a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “So let all your enemies perish, Yahweh,</p>

<p>but let those who love him be as the sun when it rises in its strength.”</p>

<p>Then the land had rest forty years.</p>

</body>
</html>