<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation was assembled as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, to Yahweh at Mizpah. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The chiefs of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen who drew sword. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> (Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) The children of Israel said, “Tell us, how did this wickedness happen?”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered, answered, “I came into Gibeah that belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to spend the night. <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The men of Gibeah rose against me, and surrounded the house by night. They intended to kill me, and they raped my concubine, and she is dead. <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel. <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, you children of Israel, all of you, give here your advice and counsel.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All the people arose as one man, saying, “None of us will go to his tent, neither will any of us turn to his house. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But now this is the thing which we will do to Gibeah: we will go up against it by lot; <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and we will take ten men of one hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and one hundred of one thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to get food for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have worked in Israel.” <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, “What wickedness is this that is happen among you? <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now therefore deliver up the men, the base fellows, who are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil from Israel.”</p>

<p>But Benjamin would not listen to the voice of their brothers the children of Israel. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities to Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The children of Benjamin were counted on that day out of the cities twenty-six thousand men who drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who were counted seven hundred chosen men. <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Among all these soldiers there were seven hundred chosen men who were left-handed. Every one of them could sling a stone at a hair and not miss. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The men of Israel, besides Benjamin, were counted four hundred thousand men who drew sword. All these were men of war.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The children of Israel arose, went up to Bethel, and asked counsel of God. They asked, “Who shall go up for us first to battle against the children of Benjamin?”</p>

<p>Yahweh said, “Judah first.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah. <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the men of Israel set the battle in array against them at Gibeah. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The children of Benjamin came out of Gibeah, and on that day destroyed twenty-two thousand of the Israelite men down to the ground. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The people, the men of Israel, encouraged themselves, and set the battle again in array in the place where they set themselves in array the first day. <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The children of Israel went up and wept before Yahweh until evening; and they asked of Yahweh, saying, “Shall I again draw near to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother?”</p>

<p>Yahweh said, “Go up against him.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Benjamin went out against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men. All these drew the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came to Bethel, and wept, and sat there before Yahweh, and fasted that day until evening; then they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before Yahweh. <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The children of Israel asked Yahweh (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days, <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days), saying, “Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease?”</p>

<p>Yahweh said, “Go up; for tomorrow I will deliver him into your hand.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Israel set ambushes all around Gibeah. <a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times. <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to strike and kill of the people, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goes up to Bethel, and the other to Gibeah, in the field, about thirty men of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The children of Benjamin said, “They are struck down before us, as at the first.” But the children of Israel said, “Let us flee, and draw them away from the city to the highways.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> All the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and set themselves in array at Baal Tamar. Then the ambushers of Israel broke out of their place, even out of Maareh Geba. <a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel came over against Gibeah, and the battle was severe; but they didn’t know that disaster was close to them. <a id="c20_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Yahweh struck Benjamin before Israel; and the children of Israel destroyed of Benjamin that day twenty-five thousand one hundred men. All these drew the sword. <a id="c20_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> So the children of Benjamin saw that they were struck; for the men of Israel yielded to Benjamin, because they trusted the ambushers whom they had set against Gibeah. <a id="c20_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The ambushers hurried, and rushed on Gibeah; then the ambushers spread out, and struck all the city with the edge of the sword. <a id="c20_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Now the appointed sign between the men of Israel and the ambushers was that they should make a great cloud of smoke rise up out of the city. <a id="c20_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> The men of Israel turned in the battle, and Benjamin began to strike and kill of the men of Israel about thirty persons; for they said, “Surely they are struck down before us, as in the first battle.” <a id="c20_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But when the cloud began to arise up out of the city in a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them; and behold, the whole city went up in smoke to the sky. <a id="c20_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed; for they saw that disaster had come on them. <a id="c20_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel to the way of the wilderness; but the battle followed hard after them; and those who came out of the cities destroyed them in the middle of it. <a id="c20_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> They surrounded the Benjamites, chased them, and trod them down at their resting place, as far as near Gibeah toward the sunrise. <a id="c20_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin fell; all these were men of valor. <a id="c20_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> They turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon; and they gleaned five thousand men of them in the highways, and followed hard after them to Gidom, and struck two thousand men of them. <a id="c20_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> So that all who fell that day of Benjamin were twenty-five thousand men who drew the sword. All these were men of valor. <a id="c20_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But six hundred men turned and fled toward the wilderness to the rock of Rimmon, and stayed in the rock of Rimmon four months. <a id="c20_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> The men of Israel turned again on the children of Benjamin, and struck them with the edge of the sword, both the entire city, and the livestock, and all that they found. Moreover all the cities which they found they set on fire.</p>

</body>
</html>