<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In those days there was no king in Israel. In those days the tribe of the Danites sought an inheritance to dwell in; for to that day, their inheritance had not fallen to them among the tribes of Israel. <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The children of Dan sent five men of their family from their whole number, men of valor, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to search it. They said to them, “Go, explore the land!”</p>

<p>They came to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite; so they turned aside there, and said to him, “Who brought you here? What do you do in this place? What do you have here?”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He said to them, “Thus and thus has Micah dealt with me, and he has hired me, and I am become his priest.”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They said to him, “Please ask counsel of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The priest said to them, “Go in peace. Your way in which you go is before Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people who were there, how they lived in safety, in the way of the Sidonians, quiet and secure; for there was no one in the land, possessing authority, that might put them to shame in anything, and they were far from the Sidonians, and had no dealings with anyone else. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They came to their brothers at Zorah and Eshtaol; and their brothers asked them, “What do you say?”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They said, “Arise, and let us go up against them; for we have seen the land, and behold, it is very good. Do you stand still? Don’t be slothful to go and to enter in to possess the land. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When you go, you will come to an unsuspecting people, and the land is large; for God has given it into your hand, a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth.”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The family of the Danites set out from Zorah and Eshtaol, with six hundred men armed with weapons of war. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They went up and encamped in Kiriath Jearim, in Judah. Therefore they called that place Mahaneh Dan, to this day. Behold, it is behind Kiriath Jearim. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They passed from there to the hill country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then the five men who went to spy out the country of Laish answered, and said to their brothers, “Do you know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and an engraved image, and a molten image? Now therefore consider what you have to do.” <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They turned aside there, and came to the house of the young Levite man, even to the house of Micah, and asked him how he was doing. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The six hundred men armed with their weapons of war, who were of the children of Dan, stood by the entrance of the gate. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The five men who went to spy out the land went up, and came in there, and took the engraved image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image; and the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the six hundred men armed with weapons of war.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When these went into Micah’s house, and took the engraved image, the ephod, the teraphim, and the molten image, the priest said to them, “What are you doing?”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They said to him, “Hold your peace, put your hand on your mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest. Is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and a family in Israel?”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The priest’s heart was glad, and he took the ephod, the teraphim, and the engraved image, and went with the people. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So they turned and departed, and put the little ones, the livestock, and the goods before them. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men who were in the houses near Micah’s house gathered together and overtook the children of Dan. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> As they cried to the children of Dan, they turned their faces, and said to Micah, “What ails you, that you come with such a company?”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He said, “You have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and have gone away! What more do I have? How can you ask me, ‘What ails you?’”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The children of Dan said to him, “Don’t let your voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall on you, and you lose your life, with the lives of your household.”</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The children of Dan went their way; and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back to his house. <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They took that which Micah had made, and the priest whom he had, and came to Laish, to a people quiet and unsuspecting, and struck them with the edge of the sword; then they burned the city with fire. <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> There was no deliverer, because it was far from Sidon, and they had no dealings with anyone else; and it was in the valley that lies by Beth Rehob. They built the city, and lived in it. <a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> They called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born to Israel; however the name of the city used to be Laish. <a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The children of Dan set up for themselves the engraved image; and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, and his sons were priests to the tribe of the Danites until the day of the captivity of the land. <a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So they set up for themselves Micah’s engraved image which he made, and it remained all the time that God’s house was in Shiloh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>teraphim were household idols that may have been associated with inheritance rights to the household property.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>