<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Samson went down to Timnah, and saw a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, “I have seen a woman in Timnah of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore get her for me as my wife.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then his father and his mother said to him, “Isn’t there a woman among your brothers’ daughters, or among all my people, that you go to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines?”</p>

<p>Samson said to his father, “Get her for me, for she pleases me well.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But his father and his mother didn’t know that it was of Yahweh; for he sought an occasion against the Philistines. Now at that time the Philistines ruled over Israel. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then went Samson down with his father and his mother to Timnah, and came to the vineyards of Timnah; and behold, a young lion roared against him. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh’s Spirit came mightily on him, and he tore him as he would have torn a young goat; and he had nothing in his hand, but he didn’t tell his father or his mother what he had done. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He went down, and talked with the woman, and she pleased Samson well. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> After a while he returned to take her; and he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion; and behold, there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and honey. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He took it into his hands, and went on, eating as he went. He came to his father and mother, and gave to them, and they ate, but he didn’t tell them that he had taken the honey out of the lion’s body. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His father went down to the woman; and Samson made a feast there, for the young men used to do so. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When they saw him, they brought thirty companions to be with him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Samson said to them, “Let me tell you a riddle now. If you can declare it to me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing; <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> but if you can’t declare it to me, then you shall give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothing.”</p>

<p>They said to him, “Tell us your riddle, that we may hear it.” <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He said to them,</p>

<p>“Out of the eater came out food.</p>

<p>Out of the strong came out sweetness.”</p>

<p>They couldn’t in three days declare the riddle. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> On the seventh day, they said to Samson’s wife, “Entice your husband, that he may declare to us the riddle, lest we burn you and your father’s house with fire. Have you called us to impoverish us? Isn’t that so?”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Samson’s wife wept before him, and said, “You just hate me, and don’t love me. You’ve told a riddle to the children of my people, and haven’t told it to me.”</p>

<p>He said to her, “Behold, I haven’t told my father or my mother, so why should I tell you?”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> She wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted; and on the seventh day, he told her, because she pressed him severely; and she told the riddle to the children of her people. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, “What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?”</p>

<p>He said to them,</p>

<p>“If you hadn’t plowed with my heifer,</p>

<p>you wouldn’t have found out my riddle.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yahweh’s Spirit came mightily on him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and struck thirty men of them, and took their plunder, then gave the changes of clothing to those who declared the riddle. His anger burned, and he went up to his father’s house. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But Samson’s wife was given to his companion who had been his friend.</p>

</body>
</html>