<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the name of his firstborn was Joel; and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His sons didn’t walk in his ways, but turned aside after dishonest gain, took bribes, and perverted justice. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel to Ramah. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They said to him, “Behold, you are old, and your sons don’t walk in your ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.” <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, “Give us a king to judge us.”</p>

<p>Samuel prayed to Yahweh. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh said to Samuel, “Listen to the voice of the people in all that they tell you; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me as the king over them. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even to this day, in that they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so they also do to you. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now therefore listen to their voice. However you shall protest solemnly to them, and shall show them the way of the king who will reign over them.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Samuel told all Yahweh’s words to the people who asked him for a king. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He said, “This will be the way of the king who shall reign over you: he will take your sons, and appoint them as his servants, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and they will run before his chariots. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He will appoint them to him for captains of thousands, and captains of fifties; and he will assign some to plow his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and the instruments of his chariots. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will take your daughters to be perfumers, to be cooks, and to be bakers. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He will take your fields, your vineyards, and your olive groves, even their best, and give them to his servants. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He will take one tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give it to his officers, and to his servants. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He will take your male servants, your female servants, your best young men, and your donkeys, and assign them to his own work. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He will take one tenth of your flocks; and you will be his servants. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You will cry out in that day because of your king whom you will have chosen for yourselves; and Yahweh will not answer you in that day.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel; and they said, “No; but we will have a king over us, <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Yahweh. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yahweh said to Samuel, “Listen to their voice, and make them a king.”</p>

<p>Samuel said to the men of Israel, “Everyone go to your own city.”</p>

</body>
</html>