<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The child Samuel ministered to Yahweh before Eli. Yahweh’s word was precious in those days. There visions were not frequent. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> At that time, when Eli was laid down in his place (now his eyes had begun to grow dim, so that he could not see), <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and God’s lamp hadn’t yet gone out, and Samuel had laid down in Yahweh’s temple, where God’s ark was; <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yahweh called Samuel; and he said, “Here I am.” <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He ran to Eli, and said, “Here I am; for you called me.”</p>

<p>He said, “I didn’t call. Lie down again.”</p>

<p>He went and lay down. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh called yet again, “Samuel!”</p>

<p>Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, “Here I am; for you called me.”</p>

<p>He answered, “I didn’t call, my son. Lie down again.” <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now Samuel didn’t yet know Yahweh, neither was Yahweh’s word yet revealed to him. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh called Samuel again the third time. He arose and went to Eli, and said, “Here I am; for you called me.”</p>

<p>Eli perceived that Yahweh had called the child. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore Eli said to Samuel, “Go, lie down. It shall be, if he calls you, that you shall say, ‘Speak, Yahweh; for your servant hears.’” So Samuel went and lay down in his place. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yahweh came, and stood, and called as at other times, “Samuel! Samuel!”</p>

<p>Then Samuel said, “Speak; for your servant hears.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh said to Samuel, “Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of everyone who hears it will tingle. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even to the end. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have told him that I will judge his house forever, for the iniquity which he knew, because his sons brought a curse on themselves, and he didn’t restrain them. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli’s house shall not be removed with sacrifice or offering forever.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of Yahweh’s house. Samuel feared to show Eli the vision. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then Eli called Samuel, and said, “Samuel, my son!”</p>

<p>He said, “Here I am.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He said, “What is the thing that he has spoken to you? Please don’t hide it from me. God do so to you, and more also, if you hide anything from me of all the things that he spoke to you.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Samuel told him every bit, and hid nothing from him.</p>

<p>He said, “It is Yahweh. Let him do what seems good to him.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Samuel grew, and Yahweh was with him, and let none of his words fall to the ground. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> All Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Yahweh. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yahweh appeared again in Shiloh; for Yahweh revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by Yahweh’s word.</p>

</body>
</html>