<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then David came to Nob to Ahimelech the priest. Ahimelech came to meet David trembling, and said to him, “Why are you alone, and no man with you?” <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> David said to Ahimelech the priest, “The king has commanded me to do something, and has said to me, ‘Let no one know anything about the business about which I send you, and what I have commanded you. I have sent the young men to a certain place.’ <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now therefore what is under your hand? Please give me five loaves of bread in my hand, or whatever is available.”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The priest answered David, and said, “I have no common bread, but there is holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> David answered the priest, and said to him, “Truly, women have been kept from us as usual these three days. When I came out, the vessels of the young men were holy, though it was only a common journey. How much more then today shall their vessels be holy?” <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread there but the show bread that was taken from before Yahweh, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before Yahweh; and his name was Doeg the Edomite, the best of the herdsmen who belonged to Saul. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> David said to Ahimelech, “Isn’t there here under your hand spear or sword? For I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king’s business required haste.”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The priest said, “Behold, the sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom you killed in the valley of Elah, is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you would like to take that, take it; for there is no other except that here.”</p>

<p>David said, “There is none like that. Give it to me.”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The servants of Achish said to him, “Isn’t this David the king of the land? Didn’t they sing to one another about him in dances, saying,</p>

<p>‘Saul has slain his thousands,</p>

<p>and David his ten thousands?’”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> David laid up these words in his heart, and was very afraid of Achish the king of Gath. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He changed his behavior before them, and pretended to be insane in their hands, and scribbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall down on his beard. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then Achish said to his servants, “Look, you see the man is insane. Why then have you brought him to me? <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Do I lack madmen, that you have brought this fellow to play the madman in my presence? Should this fellow come into my house?”</p>

</body>
</html>