<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this, David inquired of Yahweh, saying, “Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah?”</p>

<p>Yahweh said to him, “Go up.”</p>

<p>David said, “Where shall I go up?”</p>

<p>He said, “To Hebron.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> So David went up there with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> David brought up his men who were with him, every man with his household. They lived in the cities of Hebron. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. They told David, “The men of Jabesh Gilead were those who buried Saul.” <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh Gilead, and said to them, “Blessed are you by Yahweh, that you have shown this kindness to your lord, even to Saul, and have buried him. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now may Yahweh show loving kindness and truth to you. I also will reward you for this kindness, because you have done this thing. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now therefore let your hands be strong, and be valiant; for Saul your lord is dead, and also the house of Judah have anointed me king over them.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now Abner the son of Ner, captain of Saul’s army, had taken Ishbosheth the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahanaim; <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and he made him king over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ishbosheth, Saul’s son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and he reigned two years. But the house of Judah followed David. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Abner the son of Ner, and the servants of Ishbosheth the son of Saul, went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Joab the son of Zeruiah and David’s servants went out, and met them by the pool of Gibeon; and they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Abner said to Joab, “Please let the young men arise and play before us!”</p>

<p>Joab said, “Let them arise!” <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then they arose and went over by number: twelve for Benjamin and for Ishbosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of David’s servants. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They each caught his opponent by the head, and thrust his sword in his fellow’s side; so they fell down together: therefore that place in Gibeon was called Helkath Hazzurim.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The battle was very severe that day; and Abner was beaten, and the men of Israel, before David’s servants. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The three sons of Zeruiah were there, Joab, and Abishai, and Asahel: and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild gazelle. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Asahel pursued Abner; and in going he didn’t turn to the right hand or to the left from following Abner. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Abner looked behind him, and said, “Is that you, Asahel?”</p>

<p>He answered, “It is.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Abner said to him, “Turn aside to your right hand or to your left, and grab one of the young men, and take his armor.” But Asahel would not turn aside from following him. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Abner said again to Asahel, “Turn aside from following me. Why should I strike you to the ground? How then could I look Joab your brother in the face?” <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> However he refused to turn aside. Therefore Abner with the back end of the spear struck him in the body, so that the spear came out behind him; and he fell down there, and died in the same place. As many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But Joab and Abishai pursued Abner. The sun went down when they had come to the hill of Ammah, that lies before Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after Abner, and became one band, and stood on the top of a hill. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then Abner called to Joab, and said, “Shall the sword devour forever? Don’t you know that it will be bitterness in the latter end? How long will it be then, before you ask the people to return from following their brothers?”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Joab said, “As God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> lives, if you had not spoken, surely then in the morning the people would have gone away, and not each followed his brother.” <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> So Joab blew the trumpet; and all the people stood still, and pursued Israel no more, and they fought no more. <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Abner and his men went all that night through the Arabah; and they passed over the Jordan, and went through all Bithron, and came to Mahanaim. <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Joab returned from following Abner; and when he had gathered all the people together, nineteen men of David’s and Asahel were missing. <a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But David’s servants had struck Benjamin and of Abner’s men so that three hundred sixty men died. <a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> They took up Asahel, and buried him in the tomb of his father, which was in Bethlehem. Joab and his men went all night, and the day broke on them at Hebron.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Helkath Hazzurim” means “field of daggers”.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>