<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this, David struck the Philistines and subdued them; and David took the bridle of the mother city out of the hand of the Philistines. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He struck Moab, and measured them with the line, making them to lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death, and one full line to keep alive. The Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> David struck also Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his dominion at the River. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> David took from him one thousand seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand footmen. David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for one hundred chariots. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck twenty two thousand men of the Syrians. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> From Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took a great quantity of brass. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the army of Hadadezer, <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> then Toi sent Joram his son to king David, to greet him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and struck him; for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. Joram brought with him vessels of silver, vessels of gold, and vessels of brass: <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> King David also dedicated these to Yahweh, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued; <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> of Syria, of Moab, of the children of Ammon, of the Philistines, of Amalek, and of the plunder of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> David earned a reputation when he returned from striking down eighteen thousand men of the Syrians in the Valley of Salt. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He put garrisons in Edom. Throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> David reigned over all Israel; and David executed justice and righteousness for all his people. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder, <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar were priests, Seraiah was scribe, <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, David’s sons were chief ministers.</p>

</body>
</html>