<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After the death of Saul, when David had returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had stayed two days in Ziklag; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> on the third day, behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes torn, and earth on his head. When he came to David, he fell to the earth, and showed respect.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> David said to him, “Where do you come from?”</p>

<p>He said to him, “I have escaped out of the camp of Israel.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> David said to him, “How did it go? Please tell me.”</p>

<p>He answered, “The people have fled from the battle, and many of the people also have fallen and are dead. Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> David said to the young man who told him, “How do you know that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead?”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The young man who told him said, “As I happened by chance on Mount Gilboa, behold, Saul was leaning on his spear; and behold, the chariots and the horsemen followed close behind him. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When he looked behind him, he saw me, and called to me. I answered, ‘Here I am.’ <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He said to me, ‘Who are you?’ I answered him, ‘I am an Amalekite.’ <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He said to me, ‘Please stand beside me, and kill me; for anguish has taken hold of me, because my life lingers in me.’ <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So I stood beside him and killed him, because I was sure that he could not live after that he had fallen. I took the crown that was on his head and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them here to my lord.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then David took hold on his clothes, and tore them; and all the men who were with him did likewise. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They mourned, wept, and fasted until evening, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of Yahweh,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and for the house of Israel; because they had fallen by the sword. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> David said to the young man who told him, “Where are you from?”</p>

<p>He answered, “I am the son of a foreigner, an Amalekite.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> David said to him, “Why were you not afraid to stretch out your hand to destroy Yahweh’s anointed?” <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> David called one of the young men, and said, “Go near, and cut him down!” He struck him so that he died. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> David said to him, “Your blood be on your head; for your mouth has testified against you, saying, ‘I have slain Yahweh’s anointed.’”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (and he commanded them to teach the children of Judah the song of the bow; behold, it is written in the book of Jashar):</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “Your glory, Israel, was slain on your high places!</p>

<p>How the mighty have fallen!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Don’t tell it in Gath.</p>

<p>Don’t publish it in the streets of Ashkelon,</p>

<p>lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice,</p>

<p>lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You mountains of Gilboa,</p>

<p>let there be no dew or rain on you, and no fields of offerings;</p>

<p>For there the shield of the mighty was defiled and cast away,</p>

<p>The shield of Saul was not anointed with oil.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> From the blood of the slain,</p>

<p>from the fat of the mighty,</p>

<p>Jonathan’s bow didn’t turn back.</p>

<p>Saul’s sword didn’t return empty.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives.</p>

<p>In their death, they were not divided.</p>

<p>They were swifter than eagles.</p>

<p>They were stronger than lions.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> You daughters of Israel, weep over Saul,</p>

<p>who clothed you delicately in scarlet,</p>

<p>who put ornaments of gold on your clothing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How the mighty have fallen in the middle of the battle!</p>

<p>Jonathan was slain on your high places.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan.</p>

<p>You have been very pleasant to me.</p>

<p>Your love to me was wonderful,</p>

<p>passing the love of women.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> How the mighty have fallen,</p>

<p>and the weapons of war have perished!”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>