<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> David spoke to Yahweh the words of this song in the day that Yahweh delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he said:</p>

<p>“Yahweh is my rock,</p>

<p>my fortress,</p>

<p>and my deliverer, even mine;</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God is my rock in whom I take refuge;</p>

<p>my shield, and the horn of my salvation,</p>

<p>my high tower, and my refuge.</p>

<p>My savior, you save me from violence.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I call on Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised;</p>

<p>So shall I be saved from my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For the waves of death surrounded me.</p>

<p>The floods of ungodliness made me afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The cords of Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> were around me.</p>

<p>The snares of death caught me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In my distress, I called on Yahweh.</p>

<p>Yes, I called to my God.</p>

<p>He heard my voice out of his temple.</p>

<p>My cry came into his ears.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then the earth shook and trembled.</p>

<p>The foundations of heaven quaked and were shaken,</p>

<p>because he was angry.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Smoke went up out of his nostrils.</p>

<p>Consuming fire came out of his mouth.</p>

<p>Coals were kindled by it.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He bowed the heavens also, and came down.</p>

<p>Thick darkness was under his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He rode on a cherub, and flew.</p>

<p>Yes, he was seen on the wings of the wind.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He made darkness a shelter around himself:</p>

<p>gathering of waters, and thick clouds of the skies.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> At the brightness before him,</p>

<p>coals of fire were kindled.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh thundered from heaven.</p>

<p>The Most High uttered his voice.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He sent out arrows, and scattered them;</p>

<p>lightning, and confused them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then the channels of the sea appeared.</p>

<p>The foundations of the world were laid bare by Yahweh’s rebuke,</p>

<p>at the blast of the breath of his nostrils.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He sent from on high and he took me.</p>

<p>He drew me out of many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He delivered me from my strong enemy,</p>

<p>from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They came on me in the day of my calamity,</p>

<p>but Yahweh was my support.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He also brought me out into a large place.</p>

<p>He delivered me, because he delighted in me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yahweh rewarded me according to my righteousness.</p>

<p>He rewarded me according to the cleanness of my hands.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I have kept Yahweh’s ways,</p>

<p>and have not wickedly departed from my God.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For all his ordinances were before me.</p>

<p>As for his statutes, I did not depart from them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I was also perfect toward him.</p>

<p>I kept myself from my iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness,</p>

<p>According to my cleanness in his eyesight.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> With the merciful you will show yourself merciful.</p>

<p>With the perfect man you will show yourself perfect.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> With the pure you will show yourself pure.</p>

<p>With the crooked you will show yourself shrewd.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You will save the afflicted people,</p>

<p>But your eyes are on the haughty, that you may bring them down.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For you are my lamp, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Yahweh will light up my darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For by you, I run against a troop.</p>

<p>By my God, I leap over a wall.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> As for God, his way is perfect.</p>

<p>Yahweh’s word is tested.</p>

<p>He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For who is God, besides Yahweh?</p>

<p>Who is a rock, besides our God?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> God is my strong fortress.</p>

<p>He makes my way perfect.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He makes his feet like hinds’ feet,</p>

<p>and sets me on my high places.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He teaches my hands to war,</p>

<p>so that my arms bend a bow of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> You have also given me the shield of your salvation.</p>

<p>Your gentleness has made me great.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> You have enlarged my steps under me.</p>

<p>My feet have not slipped.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them.</p>

<p>I didn’t turn again until they were consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> I have consumed them,</p>

<p>and struck them through,</p>

<p>so that they can’t arise.</p>

<p>Yes, they have fallen under my feet.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For you have armed me with strength for the battle.</p>

<p>You have subdued under me those who rose up against me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me,</p>

<p>that I might cut off those who hate me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They looked, but there was no one to save;</p>

<p>even to Yahweh, but he didn’t answer them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Then I beat them as small as the dust of the earth.</p>

<p>I crushed them as the mire of the streets, and spread them abroad.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> You also have delivered me from the strivings of my people.</p>

<p>You have kept me to be the head of the nations.</p>

<p>A people whom I have not known will serve me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The foreigners will submit themselves to me.</p>

<p>As soon as they hear of me, they will obey me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The foreigners will fade away,</p>

<p>and will come trembling out of their close places.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Yahweh lives!</p>

<p>Blessed be my rock!</p>

<p>Exalted be God, the rock of my salvation,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> even the God who executes vengeance for me,</p>

<p>who brings down peoples under me,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> who brings me away from my enemies.</p>

<p>Yes, you lift me up above those who rise up against me.</p>

<p>You deliver me from the violent man.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Therefore I will give thanks to you, Yahweh, among the nations,</p>

<p>and will sing praises to your name.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> He gives great deliverance to his king,</p>

<p>and shows loving kindness to his anointed,</p>

<p>to David and to his offspring,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> forever more.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>