<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Solomon was building his own house thirteen years, and he finished all his house. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he built the House of the Forest of Lebanon. Its length was one hundred cubits,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> its width fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits, on four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams on the pillars. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> It was covered with cedar above over the forty-five beams, that were on the pillars, fifteen in a row. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> There were beams in three rows, and window was facing window in three ranks. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All the doors and posts were made square with beams: and window was facing window in three ranks. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He made the porch of pillars. Its length was fifty cubits and its width thirty cubits; with a porch before them, and pillars and a threshold before them. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He made the porch of the throne where he was to judge, even the porch of judgment; and it was covered with cedar from floor to floor. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> His house where he was to dwell, the other court within the porch, was of the like work. He made also a house for Pharaoh’s daughter (whom Solomon had taken as wife), like this porch. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All these were of costly stones, even of cut stone, according to measure, sawed with saws, inside and outside, even from the foundation to the coping, and so on the outside to the great court. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The foundation was of costly stones, even great stones, stones of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Above were costly stones, even cut stone, according to measure, and cedar wood. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The great court around had three courses of cut stone, and a course of cedar beams; like the inner court of Yahweh’s house and the porch of the house. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> King Solomon sent and brought Hiram out of Tyre. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in brass; and he was filled with wisdom and understanding and skill, to work all works in brass. He came to king Solomon, and performed all his work. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For he fashioned the two pillars of brass, eighteen cubits high apiece; and a line of twelve cubits encircled either of them. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He made two capitals of molten brass, to set on the tops of the pillars. The height of the one capital was five cubits, and the height of the other capital was five cubits. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There were nets of checker work, and wreaths of chain work, for the capitals which were on the top of the pillars; seven for the one capital, and seven for the other capital. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So he made the pillars; and there were two rows around on the one network, to cover the capitals that were on the top of the pillars: and he did so for the other capital. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The capitals that were on the top of the pillars in the porch were of lily work, four cubits. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> There were capitals above also on the two pillars, close by the belly which was beside the network. There were two hundred pomegranates in rows around the other capital. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He set up the pillars at the porch of the temple. He set up the right pillar, and called its name Jachin; and he set up the left pillar, and called its name Boaz. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> On the top of the pillars was lily work: so the work of the pillars was finished. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He made the molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in shape. Its height was five cubits; and a line of thirty cubits encircled it. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Under its brim around there were buds which encircled it for ten cubits, encircling the sea. The buds were in two rows, cast when it was cast. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It stood on twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east; and the sea was set on them above, and all their hindquarters were inward. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> It was a hand width thick. Its brim was worked like the brim of a cup, like the flower of a lily. It held two thousand baths. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He made the ten bases of brass. The length of one base was four cubits, four cubits its width, and three cubits its height. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The work of the bases was like this: they had panels; and there were panels between the ledges; <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and on the panels that were between the ledges were lions, oxen, and cherubim; and on the ledges there was a pedestal above; and beneath the lions and oxen were wreaths of hanging work. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Every base had four bronze wheels, and axles of brass; and the four feet of it had supports. The supports were cast beneath the basin, with wreaths at the side of each. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Its mouth within the capital and above was a cubit. Its mouth was round after the work of a pedestal, a cubit and a half; and also on its mouth were engravings, and their panels were square, not round. <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The four wheels were underneath the panels; and the axles of the wheels were in the base. The height of a wheel was a cubit and half a cubit. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel. Their axles, and their rims, and their spokes, and their naves, were all of cast metal. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> There were four supports at the four corners of each base. Its supports were of the base itself. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> In the top of the base there was a round band half a cubit high; and on the top of the base its supports and its panels were of the same. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> On the plates of its supports, and on its panels, he engraved cherubim, lions, and palm trees, each in its space, with wreaths all around. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> He made the ten bases in this way: all of them had one casting, one measure, and one form. <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He made ten basins of brass. One basin contained forty baths;<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and every basin was four cubits; and on every one of the ten bases one basin. <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He set the bases, five on the right side of the house, and five on the left side of the house. He set the sea on the right side of the house eastward and toward the south. <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Hiram made the basins, the shovels, and the basins. So Hiram finished doing all the work that he worked for king Solomon in Yahweh’s house: <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> the two pillars; the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars; the two networks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars; <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> the four hundred pomegranates for the two networks; two rows of pomegranates for each network, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars; <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> the ten bases; the ten basins on the bases; <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> the one sea; the twelve oxen under the sea; <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> the pots; the shovels; and the basins: even all these vessels, which Hiram made for king Solomon, in Yahweh’s house, were of burnished brass. <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The king cast them in the plain of the Jordan, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarethan. <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Solomon left all the vessels unweighed, because there were so many of them. The weight of the brass could not be determined. <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Solomon made all the vessels that were in Yahweh’s house: the golden altar and the table that the show bread was on, of gold; <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> and the lamp stands, five on the right side, and five on the left, before the inner sanctuary, of pure gold; and the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs, of gold; <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> the cups, the snuffers, the basins, the spoons, and the fire pans, of pure gold; and the hinges, both for the doors of the inner house, the most holy place, and for the doors of the house, of the temple, of gold. <a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Thus all the work that king Solomon did in Yahweh’s house was finished. Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated, the silver, the gold, and the vessels, and put them in the treasuries of Yahweh’s house.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>1 bath is one tenth of a cor, or about 5.6 U. S. gallons or 21 liters, so 4 baths was about 224 gallons or 840 liters.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>