<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So all Israel were listed by genealogies; and behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> they are written in the book of the kings of Israel. Judah was carried away captive to Babylon for their disobedience. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the first inhabitants who lived in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the temple servants. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In Jerusalem lived of the children of Judah, of the children of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim and Manasseh: <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the children of Perez the son of Judah. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel and their brothers, six hundred ninety. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Of the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah, <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah; <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and their brothers, according to their generations, nine hundred fifty-six. All these men were heads of fathers’ households by their fathers’ houses.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Of the priests: Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, Jachin, <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of God’s house; <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah, and Maasai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer; <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and their brothers, heads of their fathers’ houses, one thousand seven hundred sixty; very able men for the work of the service of God’s house.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari; <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph, <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The porters: Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman, and their brothers (Shallum was the chief), <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> who previously served in the king’s gate eastward. They were the porters for the camp of the children of Levi. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brothers, of his father’s house, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent. Their fathers had been over Yahweh’s camp, keepers of the entry. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Phinehas the son of Eleazar was ruler over them in time past, and Yahweh was with him. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was porter of the door of the Tent of Meeting. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> All these who were chosen to be porters in the thresholds were two hundred twelve. These were listed by genealogy in their villages, whom David and Samuel the seer ordained in their office of trust. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> So they and their children had the oversight of the gates of Yahweh’s house, even the house of the tent, by wards. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> On the four sides were the porters, toward the east, west, north, and south. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Their brothers, in their villages, were to come in every seven days from time to time to be with them: <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for the four chief porters, who were Levites, were in an office of trust, and were over the rooms and over the treasuries in God’s house. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They stayed around God’s house, because that duty was on them; and to their duty was its opening morning by morning. <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Certain of them were in charge of the vessels of service; for these were brought in by count, and these were taken out by count. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Some of them also were appointed over the furniture, and over all the vessels of the sanctuary, over the fine flour, the wine, the oil, the frankincense, and the spices.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Some of the sons of the priests prepared the mixing of the spices. <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, had the office of trust over the things that were baked in pans. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Some of their brothers, of the sons of the Kohathites, were over the show bread, to prepare it every Sabbath. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> These are the singers, heads of fathers’ households of the Levites, who lived in the rooms and were free from other service; for they were employed in their work day and night. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> These were heads of fathers’ households of the Levites, throughout their generations, chief men. These lived at Jerusalem. <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jeiel the father of Gibeon, whose wife’s name was Maacah, lived in Gibeon with <a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> his firstborn son Abdon, Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab, <a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth. <a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Mikloth became the father of Shimeam. They also lived with their brothers in Jerusalem, near their brothers. <a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Ner became the father of Kish. Kish became the father of Saul. Saul became the father of Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal. <a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The son of Jonathan was Merib Baal. Merib Baal became the father of Micah. <a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and Ahaz. <a id="c9_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Ahaz became the father of Jarah. Jarah became the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri became the father of Moza. <a id="c9_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Moza became the father of Binea; and Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son. <a id="c9_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Azel had six sons, whose names are these: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. These were the sons of Azel.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>