<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David with cedar trees, masons, and carpenters, to build him a house. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> David perceived that Yahweh had established him king over Israel; for his kingdom was exalted on high, for his people Israel’s sake. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> David took more wives at Jerusalem, and David became the father of more sons and daughters. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These are the names of the children whom he had in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon, <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet, <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphelet.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David; and David heard of it, and went out against them. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> David inquired of God, saying, “Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will you deliver them into my hand?”</p>

<p>Yahweh said to him, “Go up; for I will deliver them into your hand.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So they came up to Baal Perazim, and David defeated them there. David said, God has broken my enemies by my hand, like waters breaking out. Therefore they called the name of that place Baal Perazim.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They left their gods there; and David gave a command, and they were burned with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Philistines made a another raid in the valley. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> David inquired again of God; and God said to him, “You shall not go up after them. Turn away from them, and come on them opposite the mulberry trees. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> When you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry trees, then go out to battle; for God has gone out before you to strike the army of the Philistines.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> David did as God commanded him; and they attacked the army of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gezer. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The fame of David went out into all lands; and Yahweh brought the fear of him on all nations.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Baal Perazim” means “The Lord who breaks out”.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>