<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then all Israel gathered themselves to David to Hebron, saying, “Behold, we are your bone and your flesh. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In times past, even when Saul was king, it was you who led out and brought in Israel. Yahweh your God said to you, ‘You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over my people Israel.’”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before Yahweh; and they anointed David king over Israel, according to Yahweh’s word by Samuel. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> David and all Israel went to Jerusalem (also called Jebus); and the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were there. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, “You will not come in here.” Nevertheless David took the stronghold of Zion. The same is David’s city. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> David said, “Whoever strikes the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain.” Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, and was made chief. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> David lived in the stronghold; therefore they called it David’s city. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He built the city all around, from Millo even around; and Joab repaired the rest of the city. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> David grew greater and greater; for Yahweh of Armies was with him. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now these are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who showed themselves strong with him in his kingdom, together with all Israel, to make him king, according to Yahweh’s word concerning Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This is the number of the mighty men whom David had: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, the chief of the thirty; he lifted up his spear against three hundred and killed them at one time. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> After him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighty men. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines were gathered together to battle, where there was a plot of ground full of barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They stood in the middle of the plot, defended it, and killed the Philistines; and Yahweh saved them by a great victory. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam; and the army of the Philistines were encamped in the valley of Rephaim. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was in Bethlehem at that time. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> David longed, and said, “Oh that one would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The three broke through the army of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David; but David would not drink any of it, but poured it out to Yahweh, <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and said, “My God forbid me, that I should do this! Shall I drink the blood of these men who have put their lives in jeopardy?” For they risked their lives to bring it. Therefore he would not drink it. The three mighty men did these things.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Abishai, the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three; for he lifted up his spear against three hundred and killed them, and had a name among the three. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Of the three, he was more honorable than the two, and was made their captain; however he wasn’t included in the three. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, killed the two sons of Ariel of Moab. He also went down and killed a lion in the middle of a pit on a snowy day. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He killed an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> high. In the Egyptian’s hand was a spear like a weaver’s beam; and he went down to him with a staff, plucked the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand, and killed him with his own spear. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Benaiah the son of Jehoiada did these things, and had a name among the three mighty men. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Behold, he was more honorable than the thirty, but he didn’t attain to the three; and David set him over his guard.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The mighty men of the armies also include Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem, <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite, <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite, <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite, <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite, <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite, <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite, <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite, <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite, <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur, <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite, <a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai, <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri, <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armor bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah, <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, <a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai, <a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a chief of the Reubenites, and thirty with him, <a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite, <a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite, <a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite, <a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite, <a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters. Therefore this Egyptian was bout 7 feet and 6 inches or 2.28 meters tall.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>