<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> They brought in God’s ark, and set it in the middle of the tent that David had pitched for it; and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When David had finished offering the burnt offering and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in Yahweh’s name. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He gave to everyone of Israel, both man and woman, to everyone a loaf of bread, a portion of meat, and a cake of raisins. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He appointed some of the Levites to minister before Yahweh’s ark, and to commemorate, to thank, and to praise Yahweh, the God of Israel: <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Asaph the chief, and second to him Zechariah, then Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, with stringed instruments and with harps; and Asaph with cymbals, sounding aloud; <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> with Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets continually, before the ark of the covenant of God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then on that day David first ordained to give thanks to Yahweh, by the hand of Asaph and his brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Oh give thanks to Yahweh.</p>

<p>Call on his name.</p>

<p>Make what he has done known among the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Sing to him.</p>

<p>Sing praises to him.</p>

<p>Tell of all his marvelous works.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Glory in his holy name.</p>

<p>Let the heart of those who seek Yahweh rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Seek Yahweh and his strength.</p>

<p>Seek his face forever more.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Remember his marvelous works that he has done,</p>

<p>his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> you offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel his servant,</p>

<p>you children of Jacob, his chosen ones.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He is Yahweh our God.</p>

<p>His judgments are in all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Remember his covenant forever,</p>

<p>the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> the covenant which he made with Abraham,</p>

<p>his oath to Isaac.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He confirmed the same to Jacob for a statute,</p>

<p>and to Israel for an everlasting covenant,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> saying, “I will give you the land of Canaan,</p>

<p>The lot of your inheritance,”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> when you were but a few men in number,</p>

<p>yes, very few, and foreigners were in it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They went about from nation to nation,</p>

<p>from one kingdom to another people.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He allowed no man to do them wrong.</p>

<p>Yes, he reproved kings for their sakes,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “Don’t touch my anointed ones!</p>

<p>Do my prophets no harm!”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Sing to Yahweh, all the earth!</p>

<p>Display his salvation from day to day.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Declare his glory among the nations,</p>

<p>and his marvelous works among all the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised.</p>

<p>He also is to be feared above all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For all the gods of the peoples are idols,</p>

<p>but Yahweh made the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Honor and majesty are before him.</p>

<p>Strength and gladness are in his place.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ascribe to Yahweh, you relatives of the peoples,</p>

<p>ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Ascribe to Yahweh the glory due to his name.</p>

<p>Bring an offering, and come before him.</p>

<p>Worship Yahweh in holy array.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Tremble before him, all the earth.</p>

<p>The world also is established that it can’t be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let the heavens be glad,</p>

<p>and let the earth rejoice!</p>

<p>Let them say among the nations, “Yahweh reigns!”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let the sea roar, and its fullness!</p>

<p>Let the field exult, and all that is in it!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then the trees of the forest will sing for joy before Yahweh,</p>

<p>for he comes to judge the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,</p>

<p>for his loving kindness endures forever.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Say, “Save us, God of our salvation!</p>

<p>Gather us together and deliver us from the nations,</p>

<p>to give thanks to your holy name,</p>

<p>to triumph in your praise.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel,</p>

<p>from everlasting even to everlasting.</p>

<p>All the people said, “Amen,” and praised Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> So he left Asaph and his brothers there before the ark of Yahweh’s covenant, to minister before the ark continually, as every day’s work required; <a id="c16_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and Obed-Edom with their brothers, sixty-eight; Obed-Edom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to be doorkeepers; <a id="c16_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and Zadok the priest, and his brothers the priests, before Yahweh’s tabernacle in the high place that was at Gibeon, <a id="c16_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> to offer burnt offerings to Yahweh on the altar of burnt offering continually morning and evening, even according to all that is written in Yahweh’s law, which he commanded to Israel; <a id="c16_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> and with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest who were chosen, who were mentioned by name, to give thanks to Yahweh, because his loving kindness endures forever; <a id="c16_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and with them Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should sound aloud, and with instruments for the songs of God; and the sons of Jeduthun to be at the gate. <a id="c16_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> All the people departed, each man to his house; and David returned to bless his house.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>