<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah; which three were born to him of Shua’s daughter the Canaanitess. Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in Yahweh’s<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> sight; and he killed him. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Tamar his daughter-in-law bore him Perez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara; five of them in all. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The son of Carmi: Achar, the troubler of Israel, who committed a trespass in the devoted thing. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The son of Ethan: Azariah. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The sons also of Hezron, who were born to him: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Chelubai. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ram became the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab became the father of Nahshon, prince of the children of Judah; <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Nahshon became the father of Salma, and Salma became the father of Boaz, <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Boaz became the father of Obed, and Obed became the father of Jesse; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and Jesse became the father of his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third, <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth, <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ozem the sixth, David the seventh; <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Abigail bore Amasa; and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Caleb the son of Hezron became the father of children of Azubah his wife, and of Jerioth; and these were her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Azubah died, and Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Hur became the father of Uri, and Uri became the father of Bezalel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he took as wife when he was sixty years old; and she bore him Segub. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Segub became the father of Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Geshur and Aram took the towns of Jair from them, with Kenath, and its villages, even sixty cities. All these were the sons of Machir the father of Gilead. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> After Hezron died in Caleb Ephrathah, Abijah Hezron’s wife bore him Ashhur the father of Tekoa. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were Ram the firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jerahmeel had another wife, whose name was Atarah. She was the mother of Onam. <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker. <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur. <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail; and she bore him Ahban and Molid. <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim; but Seled died without children. <a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The son of Appaim: Ishi. The son of Ishi: Sheshan. The son of Sheshan: Ahlai. <a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The sons of Jada the brother of Shammai: Jether and Jonathan; and Jether died without children. <a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel. <a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha. <a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant as wife; and she bore him Attai. <a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Attai became the father of Nathan, and Nathan became the father of Zabad, <a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and Zabad became the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal became the father of Obed, <a id="c2_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and Obed became the father of Jehu, and Jehu became the father of Azariah, <a id="c2_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and Azariah became the father of Helez, and Helez became the father of Eleasah, <a id="c2_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and Eleasah became the father of Sismai, and Sismai became the father of Shallum, <a id="c2_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> and Shallum became the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah became the father of Elishama. <a id="c2_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were Mesha his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron. <a id="c2_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema. <a id="c2_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Shema became the father of Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem became the father of Shammai. <a id="c2_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The son of Shammai was Maon; and Maon was the father of Beth Zur. <a id="c2_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Ephah, Caleb’s concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez; and Haran became the father of Gazez. <a id="c2_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jothan, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph. <a id="c2_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Maacah, Caleb’s concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah. <a id="c2_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> She bore also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbena, and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah. <a id="c2_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> These were the sons of Caleb, the son of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim, <a id="c2_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Salma the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth Gader. <a id="c2_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Shobal the father of Kiriath Jearim had sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth. <a id="c2_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> The families of Kiriath Jearim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; from them came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites. <a id="c2_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth Beth Joab, and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites. <a id="c2_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> The families of scribes who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, and the Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>