<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to Yahweh’s house at Jerusalem, to keep the Passover to Yahweh, the God of Israel. <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the king had taken counsel with his princes and all the assembly in Jerusalem to keep the Passover in the second month. <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For they could not keep it at that time, because the priests had not sanctified themselves in sufficient number, and the people had not gathered themselves together to Jerusalem. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The thing was right in the eyes of the king and of all the assembly. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So they established a decree to make proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan, that they should come to keep the Passover to Yahweh, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem, for they had not kept it in great numbers in the way it is written.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So the couriers went with the letters from the king and his princes throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment of the king, saying, “You children of Israel, turn again to Yahweh, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, that he may return to the remnant of you that have escaped out of the hand of the kings of Assyria. <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Don’t be like your fathers and like your brothers, who trespassed against Yahweh, the God of their fathers, so that he gave them up to desolation, as you see. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now don’t be stiff-necked, as your fathers were, but yield yourselves to Yahweh, and enter into his sanctuary, which he has sanctified forever, and serve Yahweh your God, that his fierce anger may turn away from you. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For if you turn again to Yahweh, your brothers and your children will find compassion before those who led them captive, and will come again into this land, because Yahweh your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if you return to him.”</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So the couriers passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh, even to Zebulun, but people ridiculed them and mocked them. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Nevertheless some men of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled themselves, and came to Jerusalem. <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Also the hand of God came on Judah to give them one heart, to do the commandment of the king and of the princes by Yahweh’s word.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Many people assembled at Jerusalem to keep the feast of unleavened bread in the second month, a very great assembly. <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They arose and took away the altars that were in Jerusalem, and they took away all the altars for incense and threw them into the brook Kidron. <a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then they killed the Passover on the fourteenth day of the second month. The priests and the Levites were ashamed, and sanctified themselves, and brought burnt offerings into Yahweh’s house. <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They stood in their place after their order, according to the law of Moses the man of God. The priests sprinkled the blood which they received of the hand of the Levites. <a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For there were many in the assembly who had not sanctified themselves: therefore the Levites were in charge of killing the Passovers for everyone who was not clean, to sanctify them to Yahweh. <a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim, Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet they ate the Passover other than the way it is written. For Hezekiah had prayed for them, saying, “May the good Yahweh pardon everyone <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> who sets his heart to seek God, Yahweh, the God of his fathers, even if they aren’t clean according to the purification of the sanctuary.”</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yahweh listened to Hezekiah, and healed the people. <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The children of Israel who were present at Jerusalem kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness. The Levites and the priests praised Yahweh day by day, singing with loud instruments to Yahweh. <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hezekiah spoke encouragingly to all the Levites who had good understanding in the service of Yahweh. So they ate throughout the feast for the seven days, offering sacrifices of peace offerings, and making confession to Yahweh, the God of their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The whole assembly took counsel to keep another seven days, and they kept another seven days with gladness. <a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For Hezekiah king of Judah gave to the assembly for offerings one thousand bulls and seven thousand sheep; and the princes gave to the assembly a thousand bulls and ten thousand sheep: and a great number of priests sanctified themselves. <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All the assembly of Judah, with the priests and the Levites, and all the assembly who came out of Israel, and the foreigners who came out of the land of Israel, and who lived in Judah, rejoiced. <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> So there was great joy in Jerusalem; for since the time of Solomon the son of David king of Israel there was nothing like this in Jerusalem. <a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people. Their voice was heard, and their prayer came up to his holy habitation, even to heaven.</p>

</body>
</html>