<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hezekiah began to reign when he was twenty-five years old, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah. <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He did that which was right in Yahweh’s eyes, according to all that David his father had done. <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of Yahweh’s house, and repaired them. <a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered them together into the wide place on the east, <a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and said to them, “Listen to me, you Levites! Now sanctify yourselves, and sanctify Yahweh, the God of your fathers’ house, and carry the filthiness out of the holy place. <a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For our fathers were unfaithful, and have done that which was evil in Yahweh our God’s sight, and have forsaken him, and have turned away their faces from the habitation of Yahweh, and turned their backs. <a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Also they have shut up the doors of the porch, and put out the lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt offerings in the holy place to the God of Israel. <a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore Yahweh’s wrath was on Judah and Jerusalem, and he has delivered them to be tossed back and forth, to be an astonishment, and a hissing, as you see with your eyes. <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this. <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now it is in my heart to make a covenant with Yahweh, the God of Israel, that his fierce anger may turn away from us. <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My sons, don’t be negligent now; for Yahweh has chosen you to stand before him, to minister to him, and that you should be his ministers, and burn incense.”</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then the Levites arose, Mahath, the son of Amasai, and Joel the son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites; and of the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehallelel; and of the Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah; <a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and of the sons of Elizaphan, Shimri and Jeuel; and of the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah; <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and of the sons of Heman, Jehuel and Shimei; and of the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel. <a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They gathered their brothers, sanctified themselves, and went in, according to the commandment of the king by Yahweh’s words, to cleanse Yahweh’s house. <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The priests went into the inner part of Yahweh’s house to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness that they found in Yahweh’s temple into the court of Yahweh’s house. The Levites took it from there to carry it out to the brook Kidron. <a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now they began on the first day of the first month to sanctify, and on the eighth day of the month they came to Yahweh’s porch. They sanctified Yahweh’s house in eight days, and on the sixteenth day of the first month they finished. <a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then they went in to Hezekiah the king within the palace, and said, “We have cleansed all Yahweh’s house, including the altar of burnt offering with all its vessels, and the table of show bread with all its vessels. <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Moreover all the vessels, which king Ahaz in his reign threw away when he was unfaithful, have we prepared and sanctified. Behold, they are before Yahweh’s altar.”</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Hezekiah the king arose early, gathered the princes of the city, and went up to Yahweh’s house. <a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven lambs, and seven male goats, for a sin offering for the kingdom, for the sanctuary, and for Judah. He commanded the priests the sons of Aaron to offer them on Yahweh’s altar. <a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So they killed the bulls, and the priests received the blood, and sprinkled it on the altar. They killed the rams, and sprinkled the blood on the altar. They also killed the lambs, and sprinkled the blood on the altar. <a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They brought near the male goats for the sin offering before the king and the assembly; and they laid their hands on them. <a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then the priests killed them, and they made a sin offering with their blood on the altar, to make atonement for all Israel; for the king commanded that the burnt offering and the sin offering should be made for all Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He set the Levites in Yahweh’s house with cymbals, with stringed instruments, and with harps, according to the commandment of David, of Gad the king’s seer, and Nathan the prophet; for the commandment was from Yahweh by his prophets. <a id="c29_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The Levites stood with David’s instruments, and the priests with the trumpets. <a id="c29_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Hezekiah commanded them to offer the burnt offering on the altar. When the burnt offering began, Yahweh’s song also began, along with the trumpets and David king of Israel’s instruments. <a id="c29_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> All the assembly worshiped, the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded. All this continued until the burnt offering was finished.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When they had finished offering, the king and all who were present with him bowed themselves and worshiped. <a id="c29_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Moreover Hezekiah the king and the princes commanded the Levites to sing praises to Yahweh with the words of David, and of Asaph the seer. They sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads and worshiped.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then Hezekiah answered, “Now you have consecrated yourselves to Yahweh. Come near and bring sacrifices and thank offerings into Yahweh’s house.” The assembly brought in sacrifices and thank offerings, and as many as were of a willing heart brought burnt offerings. <a id="c29_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The number of the burnt offerings which the assembly brought was seventy bulls, one hundred rams, and two hundred lambs. All these were for a burnt offering to Yahweh. <a id="c29_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The consecrated things were six hundred head of cattle and three thousand sheep. <a id="c29_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But the priests were too few, so that they could not flay all the burnt offerings. Therefore their brothers the Levites helped them, until the work was ended, and until the priests had sanctified themselves; for the Levites were more upright in heart to sanctify themselves than the priests. <a id="c29_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat of the peace offerings, and with the drink offerings for every burnt offering. So the service of Yahweh’s house was set in order. <a id="c29_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced, because of that which God had prepared for the people; for the thing was done suddenly.</p>

</body>
</html>