<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jotham was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother’s name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He did that which was right in Yahweh’s eyes, according to all that his father Uzziah had done. However he didn’t enter into Yahweh’s temple. The people still acted corruptly. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He built the upper gate of Yahweh’s house, and he built much on the wall of Ophel. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Moreover he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and in the forests he built fortresses and towers. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He also fought with the king of the children of Ammon, and prevailed against them. The children of Ammon gave him the same year one hundred talents<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of silver, ten thousand cors<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of wheat, and ten thousand cors of barley.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> The children of Ammon also gave that much to him in the second year, and in the third. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So Jotham became mighty, because he ordered his ways before Yahweh his God. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars, and his ways, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in David’s city; and Ahaz his son reigned in his place.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>1 cor is the same as a homer, or about 55.9 U. S. gallons (liquid) or 211 liters or 6 bushels 10,000 cors of wheat would weigh about 1,640 metric tons.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>10,000 cors of barley would weigh about 1,310 metric tons.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>