<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nehemiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nehemiah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brothers the priests, and they built the sheep gate. They sanctified it, and set up its doors. They sanctified it even to the tower of Hammeah, to the tower of Hananel. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Next to him the men of Jericho built. Next to them Zaccur the son of Imri built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sons of Hassenaah built the fish gate. They laid its beams, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Next to them, Meremoth the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz made repairs. Next to them, Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabel made repairs. Next to them, Zadok the son of Baana made repairs. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Next to them, the Tekoites made repairs; but their nobles didn’t put their necks to the Lord’s work.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah repaired the old gate. They laid its beams, and set up its doors, and its bolts, and its bars. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Next to them, Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, repaired the residence of the governor beyond the River. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Next to him, Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, goldsmiths, made repairs. Next to him, Hananiah, one of the perfumers, made repairs, and they fortified Jerusalem even to the wide wall. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Next to them, Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, made repairs. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Next to them, Jedaiah the son of Harumaph made repairs across from his house. Next to him, Hattush the son of Hashabneiah made repairs. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hasshub the son of Pahathmoab, repaired another portion, and the tower of the furnaces. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Next to him, Shallum the son of Hallohesh, the ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, he and his daughters, made repairs.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah repaired the valley gate. They built it, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and one thousand cubits<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the wall to the dung gate.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Malchijah the son of Rechab, the ruler of the district of Beth Haccherem repaired the dung gate. He built it, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of the district of Mizpah repaired the spring gate. He built it, and covered it, and set up its doors, its bolts, and its bars, and the wall of the pool of Shelah by the king’s garden, even to the stairs that go down from David’s city. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> After him, Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of half the district of Beth Zur, made repairs to the place opposite the tombs of David, and to the pool that was made, and to the house of the mighty men. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> After him, the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani made repairs. Next to him, Hashabiah, the ruler of half the district of Keilah, made repairs for his district. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> After him, their brothers, Bavvai the son of Henadad, the ruler of half the district of Keilah made repairs. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Next to him, Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, repaired another portion, across from the ascent to the armory at the turning of the wall. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> After him, Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired another portion, from the turning of the wall to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> After him, Meremoth the son of Uriah the son of Hakkoz repaired another portion, from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the end of the house of Eliashib. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> After him, the priests, the men of the Plain made repairs. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> After them, Benjamin and Hasshub made repairs across from their house. After them, Azariah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah made repairs beside his own house. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> After him, Binnui the son of Henadad repaired another portion, from the house of Azariah to the turning of the wall, and to the corner. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Palal the son of Uzai made repairs opposite the turning of the wall, and the tower that stands out from the upper house of the king, which is by the court of the guard. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh made repairs. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> (Now the temple servants lived in Ophel, to the place over against the water gate toward the east, and the tower that stands out.) <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> After him the Tekoites repaired another portion, over against the great tower that stands out, and to the wall of Ophel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Above the horse gate, the priests made repairs, everyone across from his own house. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> After them, Zadok the son of Immer made repairs across from his own house. After him, Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate made repairs. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> After him, Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, repaired another portion. After him, Meshullam the son of Berechiah made repairs across from his room. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> After him, Malchijah, one of the goldsmiths to the house of the temple servants, and of the merchants, made repairs opposite the gate of Hammiphkad, and to the ascent of the corner. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Between the ascent of the corner and the sheep gate, the goldsmiths and the merchants made repairs.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>