<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “But now those who are younger than I have me in derision,</p>

<p>whose fathers I would have disdained to put with my sheep dogs.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Of what use is the strength of their hands to me,</p>

<p>men in whom ripe age has perished?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They are gaunt from lack and famine.</p>

<p>They gnaw the dry ground, in the gloom of waste and desolation.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They pluck salt herbs by the bushes.</p>

<p>The roots of the broom are their food.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are driven out from among men.</p>

<p>They cry after them as after a thief;</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So that they dwell in frightful valleys,</p>

<p>and in holes of the earth and of the rocks.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Among the bushes they bray;</p>

<p>and under the nettles they are gathered together.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are children of fools, yes, children of base men.</p>

<p>They were flogged out of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “Now I have become their song.</p>

<p>Yes, I am a byword to them.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They abhor me, they stand aloof from me,</p>

<p>and don’t hesitate to spit in my face.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he has untied his cord, and afflicted me;</p>

<p>and they have thrown off restraint before me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> On my right hand rise the rabble.</p>

<p>They thrust aside my feet,</p>

<p>They cast up against me their ways of destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They mar my path,</p>

<p>They set forward my calamity,</p>

<p>without anyone’s help.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As through a wide breach they come,</p>

<p>in the middle of the ruin they roll themselves in.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Terrors have turned on me.</p>

<p>They chase my honor as the wind.</p>

<p>My welfare has passed away as a cloud.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Now my soul is poured out within me.</p>

<p>Days of affliction have taken hold on me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In the night season my bones are pierced in me,</p>

<p>and the pains that gnaw me take no rest.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By great force is my garment disfigured.</p>

<p>It binds me about as the collar of my coat.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He has cast me into the mire.</p>

<p>I have become like dust and ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I cry to you, and you do not answer me.</p>

<p>I stand up, and you gaze at me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You have turned to be cruel to me.</p>

<p>With the might of your hand you persecute me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You lift me up to the wind, and drive me with it.</p>

<p>You dissolve me in the storm.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I know that you will bring me to death,</p>

<p>To the house appointed for all living.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “However doesn’t one stretch out a hand in his fall?</p>

<p>Or in his calamity therefore cry for help?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Didn’t I weep for him who was in trouble?</p>

<p>Wasn’t my soul grieved for the needy?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When I looked for good, then evil came;</p>

<p>When I waited for light, there came darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My heart is troubled, and doesn’t rest.</p>

<p>Days of affliction have come on me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I go mourning without the sun.</p>

<p>I stand up in the assembly, and cry for help.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I am a brother to jackals,</p>

<p>and a companion to ostriches.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> My skin grows black and peels from me.</p>

<p>My bones are burned with heat.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore my harp has turned to mourning,</p>

<p>and my pipe into the voice of those who weep.</p>

</body>
</html>