<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “I made a covenant with my eyes,</p>

<p>how then should I look lustfully at a young woman?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For what is the portion from God above,</p>

<p>and the heritage from the Almighty on high?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is it not calamity to the unrighteous,</p>

<p>and disaster to the workers of iniquity?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Doesn’t he see my ways,</p>

<p>and count all my steps?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “If I have walked with falsehood,</p>

<p>and my foot has hurried to deceit</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> (let me be weighed in an even balance,</p>

<p>that God may know my integrity);</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> if my step has turned out of the way,</p>

<p>if my heart walked after my eyes,</p>

<p>if any defilement has stuck to my hands,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> then let me sow, and let another eat.</p>

<p>Yes, let the produce of my field be rooted out.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “If my heart has been enticed to a woman,</p>

<p>and I have laid wait at my neighbor’s door,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> then let my wife grind for another,</p>

<p>and let others sleep with her.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For that would be a heinous crime.</p>

<p>Yes, it would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For it is a fire that consumes to destruction,</p>

<p>and would root out all my increase.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “If I have despised the cause of my male servant</p>

<p>or of my female servant,</p>

<p>when they contended with me;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What then shall I do when God rises up?</p>

<p>When he visits, what shall I answer him?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Didn’t he who made me in the womb make him?</p>

<p>Didn’t one fashion us in the womb?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “If I have withheld the poor from their desire,</p>

<p>or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> or have eaten my morsel alone,</p>

<p>and the fatherless has not eaten of it</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (no, from my youth he grew up with me as with a father,</p>

<p>her I have guided from my mother’s womb);</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> if I have seen any perish for want of clothing,</p>

<p>or that the needy had no covering;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> if his heart hasn’t blessed me,</p>

<p>if he hasn’t been warmed with my sheep’s fleece;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> if I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless,</p>

<p>because I saw my help in the gate,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> then let my shoulder fall from the shoulder blade,</p>

<p>and my arm be broken from the bone.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For calamity from God is a terror to me.</p>

<p>Because his majesty, I can do nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “If I have made gold my hope,</p>

<p>and have said to the fine gold, ‘You are my confidence;’</p>

<p><a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If I have rejoiced because my wealth was great,</p>

<p>and because my hand had gotten much;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> if I have seen the sun when it shined,</p>

<p>or the moon moving in splendor,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and my heart has been secretly enticed,</p>

<p>and my hand threw a kiss from my mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> this also would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges;</p>

<p>for I should have denied the God who is above.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “If I have rejoiced at the destruction of him who hated me,</p>

<p>or lifted up myself when evil found him</p>

<p><a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> (yes, I have not allowed my mouth to sin</p>

<p>by asking his life with a curse);</p>

<p><a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> if the men of my tent have not said,</p>

<p>‘Who can find one who has not been filled with his meat?’</p>

<p><a id="c31_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> (the foreigner has not camped in the street,</p>

<p>but I have opened my doors to the traveler);</p>

<p><a id="c31_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> if like Adam I have covered my transgressions,</p>

<p>by hiding my iniquity in my heart,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> because I feared the great multitude,</p>

<p>and the contempt of families terrified me,</p>

<p>so that I kept silence, and didn’t go out of the door—</p>

<p><a id="c31_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> oh that I had one to hear me!</p>

<p>Behold, here is my signature! Let the Almighty answer me!</p>

<p>Let the accuser write my indictment!</p>

<p><a id="c31_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Surely I would carry it on my shoulder;</p>

<p>and I would bind it to me as a crown.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I would declare to him the number of my steps.</p>

<p>as a prince would I go near to him.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> If my land cries out against me,</p>

<p>and its furrows weep together;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> if I have eaten its fruits without money,</p>

<p>or have caused its owners to lose their life,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> let briers grow instead of wheat,</p>

<p>and stinkweed instead of barley.”</p>

<p>The words of Job are ended.</p>

</body>
</html>