<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Oh that my anguish were weighed,</p>

<p>and all my calamity laid in the balances!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For now it would be heavier than the sand of the seas,</p>

<p>therefore have my words been rash.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the arrows of the Almighty are within me.</p>

<p>My spirit drinks up their poison.</p>

<p>The terrors of God set themselves in array against me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Does the wild donkey bray when he has grass?</p>

<p>Or does the ox low over his fodder?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Can that which has no flavor be eaten without salt?</p>

<p>Or is there any taste in the white of an egg?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My soul refuses to touch them.</p>

<p>They are as loathsome food to me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Oh that I might have my request,</p>

<p>that God would grant the thing that I long for,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> even that it would please God to crush me;</p>

<p>that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Be it still my consolation,</p>

<p>yes, let me exult in pain that doesn’t spare,</p>

<p>that I have not denied the words of the Holy One.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> What is my strength, that I should wait?</p>

<p>What is my end, that I should be patient?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Is my strength the strength of stones?</p>

<p>Or is my flesh of brass?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Isn’t it that I have no help in me,</p>

<p>That wisdom is driven quite from me?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “To him who is ready to faint, kindness should be shown from his friend;</p>

<p>even to him who forsakes the fear of the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My brothers have dealt deceitfully as a brook,</p>

<p>as the channel of brooks that pass away;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Which are black by reason of the ice,</p>

<p>in which the snow hides itself.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In the dry season, they vanish.</p>

<p>When it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The caravans that travel beside them turn aside.</p>

<p>They go up into the waste, and perish.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The caravans of Tema looked.</p>

<p>The companies of Sheba waited for them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They were distressed because they were confident.</p>

<p>They came there, and were confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For now you are nothing.</p>

<p>You see a terror, and are afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Did I say, ‘Give to me?’</p>

<p>or, ‘Offer a present for me from your substance?’</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> or, ‘Deliver me from the adversary’s hand?’</p>

<p>or, ‘Redeem me from the hand of the oppressors?’</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “Teach me, and I will hold my peace.</p>

<p>Cause me to understand wherein I have erred.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How forcible are words of uprightness!</p>

<p>But your reproof, what does it reprove?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Do you intend to reprove words,</p>

<p>since the speeches of one who is desperate are as wind?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Yes, you would even cast lots for the fatherless,</p>

<p>and make merchandise of your friend.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now therefore be pleased to look at me,</p>

<p>for surely I shall not lie to your face.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Please return.</p>

<p>Let there be no injustice.</p>

<p>Yes, return again.</p>

<p>My cause is righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Is there injustice on my tongue?</p>

<p>Can’t my taste discern mischievous things?</p>

</body>
</html>