<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Who is this who darkens counsel</p>

<p>by words without knowledge?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Brace yourself like a man,</p>

<p>for I will question you, then you answer me!</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth?</p>

<p>Declare, if you have understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who determined its measures, if you know?</p>

<p>Or who stretched the line on it?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whereupon were its foundations fastened?</p>

<p>Or who laid its cornerstone,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> when the morning stars sang together,</p>

<p>and all the sons of God shouted for joy?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Or who shut up the sea with doors,</p>

<p>when it broke out of the womb,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> when I made clouds its garment,</p>

<p>and wrapped it in thick darkness,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> marked out for it my bound,</p>

<p>set bars and doors,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and said, ‘Here you may come, but no further.</p>

<p>Here your proud waves shall be stayed?’</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Have you commanded the morning in your days,</p>

<p>and caused the dawn to know its place;</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> that it might take hold of the ends of the earth,</p>

<p>and shake the wicked out of it?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> It is changed as clay under the seal,</p>

<p>and presented as a garment.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> From the wicked, their light is withheld.</p>

<p>The high arm is broken.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Have you entered into the springs of the sea?</p>

<p>Or have you walked in the recesses of the deep?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Have the gates of death been revealed to you?</p>

<p>Or have you seen the gates of the shadow of death?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Have you comprehended the earth in its width?</p>

<p>Declare, if you know it all.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “What is the way to the dwelling of light?</p>

<p>As for darkness, where is its place,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> that you should take it to its bound,</p>

<p>that you should discern the paths to its house?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Surely you know, for you were born then,</p>

<p>and the number of your days is great!</p>

<p><a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Have you entered the treasuries of the snow,</p>

<p>or have you seen the treasures of the hail,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> which I have reserved against the time of trouble,</p>

<p>against the day of battle and war?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> By what way is the lightning distributed,</p>

<p>or the east wind scattered on the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who has cut a channel for the flood water,</p>

<p>or the path for the thunderstorm;</p>

<p><a id="c38_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> To cause it to rain on a land where no man is;</p>

<p>on the wilderness, in which there is no man;</p>

<p><a id="c38_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> to satisfy the waste and desolate ground,</p>

<p>to cause the tender grass to grow?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Does the rain have a father?</p>

<p>Or who fathers the drops of dew?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Out of whose womb came the ice?</p>

<p>The gray frost of the sky, who has given birth to it?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The waters become hard like stone,</p>

<p>when the surface of the deep is frozen.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “Can you bind the cluster of the Pleiades,</p>

<p>or loosen the cords of Orion?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Can you lead the constellations out in their season?</p>

<p>Or can you guide the Bear with her cubs?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Do you know the laws of the heavens?</p>

<p>Can you establish its dominion over the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> “Can you lift up your voice to the clouds,</p>

<p>That abundance of waters may cover you?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Can you send out lightnings, that they may go?</p>

<p>Do they report to you, ‘Here we are?’</p>

<p><a id="c38_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Who has put wisdom in the inward parts?</p>

<p>Or who has given understanding to the mind?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Who can count the clouds by wisdom?</p>

<p>Or who can pour out the bottles of the sky,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> when the dust runs into a mass,</p>

<p>and the clods of earth stick together?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> “Can you hunt the prey for the lioness,</p>

<p>or satisfy the appetite of the young lions,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> when they crouch in their dens,</p>

<p>and lie in wait in the thicket?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Who provides for the raven his prey,</p>

<p>when his young ones cry to God,</p>

<p>and wander for lack of food?</p>

</body>
</html>