<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “If someone ventures to talk with you, will you be grieved?</p>

<p>But who can withhold himself from speaking?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, you have instructed many,</p>

<p>you have strengthened the weak hands.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Your words have supported him who was falling,</p>

<p>You have made firm the feeble knees.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now it has come to you, and you faint.</p>

<p>It touches you, and you are troubled.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Isn’t your piety your confidence?</p>

<p>Isn’t the integrity of your ways your hope?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Remember, now, whoever perished, being innocent?</p>

<p>Or where were the upright cut off?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> According to what I have seen, those who plow iniquity,</p>

<p>and sow trouble,</p>

<p>reap the same.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By the breath of God they perish.</p>

<p>By the blast of his anger are they consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The roaring of the lion,</p>

<p>and the voice of the fierce lion,</p>

<p>the teeth of the young lions, are broken.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The old lion perishes for lack of prey.</p>

<p>The cubs of the lioness are scattered abroad.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Now a thing was secretly brought to me.</p>

<p>My ear received a whisper of it.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In thoughts from the visions of the night,</p>

<p>when deep sleep falls on men,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> fear came on me, and trembling,</p>

<p>which made all my bones shake.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then a spirit passed before my face.</p>

<p>The hair of my flesh stood up.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It stood still, but I couldn’t discern its appearance.</p>

<p>A form was before my eyes.</p>

<p>Silence, then I heard a voice, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> ‘Shall mortal man be more just than God?</p>

<p>Shall a man be more pure than his Maker?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, he puts no trust in his servants.</p>

<p>He charges his angels with error.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How much more, those who dwell in houses of clay,</p>

<p>whose foundation is in the dust,</p>

<p>who are crushed before the moth!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Between morning and evening they are destroyed.</p>

<p>They perish forever without any regarding it.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Isn’t their tent cord plucked up within them?</p>

<p>They die, and that without wisdom.’</p>

</body>
</html>