<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Yes, at this my heart trembles,</p>

<p>and is moved out of its place.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, oh, hear the noise of his voice,</p>

<p>the sound that goes out of his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He sends it out under the whole sky,</p>

<p>and his lightning to the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> After it a voice roars.</p>

<p>He thunders with the voice of his majesty.</p>

<p>He doesn’t hold back anything when his voice is heard.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God thunders marvelously with his voice.</p>

<p>He does great things, which we can’t comprehend.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For he says to the snow, ‘Fall on the earth;’</p>

<p>likewise to the shower of rain,</p>

<p>and to the showers of his mighty rain.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He seals up the hand of every man,</p>

<p>that all men whom he has made may know it.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then the animals take cover,</p>

<p>and remain in their dens.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Out of its room comes the storm,</p>

<p>and cold out of the north.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> By the breath of God, ice is given,</p>

<p>and the width of the waters is frozen.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yes, he loads the thick cloud with moisture.</p>

<p>He spreads abroad the cloud of his lightning.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It is turned around by his guidance,</p>

<p>that they may do whatever he commands them</p>

<p>on the surface of the habitable world,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whether it is for correction, or for his land,</p>

<p>or for loving kindness, that he causes it to come.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Listen to this, Job.</p>

<p>Stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Do you know how God controls them,</p>

<p>and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Do you know the workings of the clouds,</p>

<p>the wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You whose clothing is warm,</p>

<p>when the earth is still by reason of the south wind?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Can you, with him, spread out the sky,</p>

<p>which is strong as a cast metal mirror?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Teach us what we shall tell him,</p>

<p>for we can’t make our case by reason of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Will it be told him that I would speak?</p>

<p>Or should a man wish that he were swallowed up?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now men don’t see the light which is bright in the skies,</p>

<p>but the wind passes, and clears them.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Out of the north comes golden splendor.</p>

<p>With God is awesome majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> We can’t reach the Almighty.</p>

<p>He is exalted in power.</p>

<p>In justice and great righteousness, he will not oppress.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore men revere him.</p>

<p>He doesn’t regard any who are wise of heart.”</p>

</body>
</html>