<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Surely there is a mine for silver,</p>

<p>and a place for gold which they refine.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Iron is taken out of the earth,</p>

<p>and copper is smelted out of the ore.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Man sets an end to darkness,</p>

<p>and searches out, to the furthest bound,</p>

<p>the stones of obscurity and of thick darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He breaks open a shaft away from where people live.</p>

<p>They are forgotten by the foot.</p>

<p>They hang far from men, they swing back and forth.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As for the earth, out of it comes bread;</p>

<p>Underneath it is turned up as it were by fire.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sapphires come from its rocks.</p>

<p>It has dust of gold.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> That path no bird of prey knows,</p>

<p>neither has the falcon’s eye seen it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The proud animals have not trodden it,</p>

<p>nor has the fierce lion passed by there.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He puts his hand on the flinty rock,</p>

<p>and he overturns the mountains by the roots.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He cuts out channels among the rocks.</p>

<p>His eye sees every precious thing.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He binds the streams that they don’t trickle.</p>

<p>The thing that is hidden he brings out to light.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “But where shall wisdom be found?</p>

<p>Where is the place of understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Man doesn’t know its price;</p>

<p>Neither is it found in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The deep says, ‘It isn’t in me.’</p>

<p>The sea says, ‘It isn’t with me.’</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It can’t be gotten for gold,</p>

<p>neither shall silver be weighed for its price.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It can’t be valued with the gold of Ophir,</p>

<p>with the precious onyx, or the sapphire.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Gold and glass can’t equal it,</p>

<p>neither shall it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal.</p>

<p>Yes, the price of wisdom is above rubies.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it,</p>

<p>Neither shall it be valued with pure gold.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Where then does wisdom come from?</p>

<p>Where is the place of understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Seeing it is hidden from the eyes of all living,</p>

<p>and kept close from the birds of the sky.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Destruction and Death say,</p>

<p>‘We have heard a rumor of it with our ears.’</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “God understands its way,</p>

<p>and he knows its place.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he looks to the ends of the earth,</p>

<p>and sees under the whole sky.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He establishes the force of the wind.</p>

<p>Yes, he measures out the waters by measure.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When he made a decree for the rain,</p>

<p>and a way for the lightning of the thunder;</p>

<p><a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> then he saw it, and declared it.</p>

<p>He established it, yes, and searched it out.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> To man he said,</p>

<p>‘Behold, the fear of the Lord,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> that is wisdom.</p>

<p>To depart from evil is understanding.’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, lapis lazuli</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.” </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>