<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Should a wise man answer with vain knowledge,</p>

<p>and fill himself with the east wind?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Should he reason with unprofitable talk,</p>

<p>or with speeches with which he can do no good?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yes, you do away with fear,</p>

<p>and hinder devotion before God.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For your iniquity teaches your mouth,</p>

<p>and you choose the language of the crafty.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your own mouth condemns you, and not I.</p>

<p>Yes, your own lips testify against you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Are you the first man who was born?</p>

<p>Or were you brought out before the hills?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Have you heard the secret counsel of God?</p>

<p>Do you limit wisdom to yourself?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What do you know, that we don’t know?</p>

<p>What do you understand, which is not in us?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With us are both the gray-headed and the very aged men,</p>

<p>much elder than your father.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Are the consolations of God too small for you,</p>

<p>even the word that is gentle toward you?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why does your heart carry you away?</p>

<p>Why do your eyes flash,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That you turn your spirit against God,</p>

<p>and let such words go out of your mouth?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What is man, that he should be clean?</p>

<p>What is he who is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, he puts no trust in his holy ones.</p>

<p>Yes, the heavens are not clean in his sight;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> how much less one who is abominable and corrupt,</p>

<p>a man who drinks iniquity like water!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “I will show you, listen to me;</p>

<p>that which I have seen I will declare</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (which wise men have told by their fathers,</p>

<p>and have not hidden it;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> to whom alone the land was given,</p>

<p>and no stranger passed among them):</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> the wicked man writhes in pain all his days,</p>

<p>even the number of years that are laid up for the oppressor.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A sound of terrors is in his ears.</p>

<p>In prosperity the destroyer shall come on him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He doesn’t believe that he shall return out of darkness.</p>

<p>He is waited for by the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He wanders abroad for bread, saying, ‘Where is it?’</p>

<p>He knows that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Distress and anguish make him afraid.</p>

<p>They prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Because he has stretched out his hand against God,</p>

<p>and behaves himself proudly against the Almighty;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> he runs at him with a stiff neck,</p>

<p>with the thick shields of his bucklers;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> because he has covered his face with his fatness,</p>

<p>and gathered fat on his thighs.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He has lived in desolate cities,</p>

<p>in houses which no one inhabited,</p>

<p>which were ready to become heaps.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue,</p>

<p>neither shall their possessions be extended on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He shall not depart out of darkness.</p>

<p>The flame shall dry up his branches.</p>

<p>By the breath of God’s mouth shall he go away.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself;</p>

<p>for emptiness shall be his reward.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It shall be accomplished before his time.</p>

<p>His branch shall not be green.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine,</p>

<p>and shall cast off his flower as the olive tree.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For the company of the godless shall be barren,</p>

<p>and fire shall consume the tents of bribery.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> They conceive mischief, and produce iniquity.</p>

<p>Their heart prepares deceit.”</p>

</body>
</html>