<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Zophar the Naamathite answered,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Therefore do my thoughts give answer to me,</p>

<p>even by reason of my haste that is in me.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have heard the reproof which puts me to shame.</p>

<p>The spirit of my understanding answers me.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Don’t you know this from old time,</p>

<p>since man was placed on earth,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that the triumphing of the wicked is short,</p>

<p>the joy of the godless but for a moment?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Though his height mount up to the heavens,</p>

<p>and his head reach to the clouds,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> yet he shall perish forever like his own dung.</p>

<p>Those who have seen him shall say, ‘Where is he?’</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found.</p>

<p>Yes, he shall be chased away like a vision of the night.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The eye which saw him shall see him no more,</p>

<p>neither shall his place any more see him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His children shall seek the favor of the poor.</p>

<p>His hands shall give back his wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His bones are full of his youth,</p>

<p>but youth shall lie down with him in the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Though wickedness is sweet in his mouth,</p>

<p>though he hide it under his tongue,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> though he spare it, and will not let it go,</p>

<p>but keep it still within his mouth;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> yet his food in his bowels is turned.</p>

<p>It is cobra venom within him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He has swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again.</p>

<p>God will cast them out of his belly.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He shall suck cobra venom.</p>

<p>The viper’s tongue shall kill him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He shall not look at the rivers,</p>

<p>the flowing streams of honey and butter.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> That for which he labored he shall restore, and shall not swallow it down.</p>

<p>According to the substance that he has gotten, he shall not rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For he has oppressed and forsaken the poor.</p>

<p>He has violently taken away a house, and he shall not build it up.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “Because he knew no quietness within him,</p>

<p>he shall not save anything of that in which he delights.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There was nothing left that he didn’t devour,</p>

<p>therefore his prosperity shall not endure.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In the fullness of his sufficiency, distress shall overtake him.</p>

<p>The hand of everyone who is in misery shall come on him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> When he is about to fill his belly, God will cast the fierceness of his wrath on him.</p>

<p>It will rain on him while he is eating.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He shall flee from the iron weapon.</p>

<p>The bronze arrow shall strike him through.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He draws it out, and it comes out of his body.</p>

<p>Yes, the glittering point comes out of his liver.</p>

<p>Terrors are on him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All darkness is laid up for his treasures.</p>

<p>An unfanned fire shall devour him.</p>

<p>It shall consume that which is left in his tent.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The heavens shall reveal his iniquity.</p>

<p>The earth shall rise up against him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The increase of his house shall depart.</p>

<p>They shall rush away in the day of his wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> This is the portion of a wicked man from God,</p>

<p>the heritage appointed to him by God.”</p>

</body>
</html>