<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Why aren’t times laid up by the Almighty?</p>

<p>Why don’t those who know him see his days?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> There are people who remove the landmarks.</p>

<p>They violently take away flocks, and feed them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They drive away the donkey of the fatherless,</p>

<p>and they take the widow’s ox for a pledge.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They turn the needy out of the way.</p>

<p>The poor of the earth all hide themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, as wild donkeys in the desert,</p>

<p>they go out to their work, seeking diligently for food.</p>

<p>The wilderness yields them bread for their children.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They cut their food in the field.</p>

<p>They glean the vineyard of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They lie all night naked without clothing,</p>

<p>and have no covering in the cold.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are wet with the showers of the mountains,</p>

<p>and embrace the rock for lack of a shelter.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There are those who pluck the fatherless from the breast,</p>

<p>and take a pledge of the poor,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So that they go around naked without clothing.</p>

<p>Being hungry, they carry the sheaves.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They make oil within the walls of these men.</p>

<p>They tread wine presses, and suffer thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> From out of the populous city, men groan.</p>

<p>The soul of the wounded cries out,</p>

<p>yet God doesn’t regard the folly.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “These are of those who rebel against the light.</p>

<p>They don’t know its ways,</p>

<p>nor stay in its paths.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The murderer rises with the light.</p>

<p>He kills the poor and needy.</p>

<p>In the night he is like a thief.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eye also of the adulterer waits for the twilight,</p>

<p>saying, ‘No eye shall see me.’</p>

<p>He disguises his face.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In the dark they dig through houses.</p>

<p>They shut themselves up in the daytime.</p>

<p>They don’t know the light.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the morning is to all of them like thick darkness,</p>

<p>for they know the terrors of the thick darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “They are foam on the surface of the waters.</p>

<p>Their portion is cursed in the earth.</p>

<p>They don’t turn into the way of the vineyards.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Drought and heat consume the snow waters,</p>

<p>so does Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> those who have sinned.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The womb shall forget him.</p>

<p>The worm shall feed sweetly on him.</p>

<p>He shall be no more remembered.</p>

<p>Unrighteousness shall be broken as a tree.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He devours the barren who don’t bear.</p>

<p>He shows no kindness to the widow.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yet God preserves the mighty by his power.</p>

<p>He rises up who has no assurance of life.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> God gives them security, and they rest in it.</p>

<p>His eyes are on their ways.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They are exalted; yet a little while, and they are gone.</p>

<p>Yes, they are brought low, they are taken out of the way as all others,</p>

<p>and are cut off as the tops of the ears of grain.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If it isn’t so now, who will prove me a liar,</p>

<p>and make my speech worth nothing?”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>