<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Can you draw out Leviathan<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> with a fish hook,</p>

<p>or press down his tongue with a cord?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Can you put a rope into his nose,</p>

<p>or pierce his jaw through with a hook?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Will he make many petitions to you,</p>

<p>or will he speak soft words to you?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will he make a covenant with you,</p>

<p>that you should take him for a servant forever?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Will you play with him as with a bird?</p>

<p>Or will you bind him for your girls?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Will traders barter for him?</p>

<p>Will they part him among the merchants?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Can you fill his skin with barbed irons,</p>

<p>or his head with fish spears?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lay your hand on him.</p>

<p>Remember the battle, and do so no more.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the hope of him is in vain.</p>

<p>Won’t one be cast down even at the sight of him?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> None is so fierce that he dare stir him up.</p>

<p>Who then is he who can stand before me?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who has first given to me, that I should repay him?</p>

<p>Everything under the heavens is mine.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “I will not keep silence concerning his limbs,</p>

<p>nor his mighty strength, nor his goodly frame.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who can strip off his outer garment?</p>

<p>Who shall come within his jaws?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who can open the doors of his face?</p>

<p>Around his teeth is terror.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Strong scales are his pride,</p>

<p>shut up together with a close seal.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> One is so near to another,</p>

<p>that no air can come between them.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They are joined to one another.</p>

<p>They stick together, so that they can’t be pulled apart.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His sneezing flashes out light.</p>

<p>His eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Out of his mouth go burning torches.</p>

<p>Sparks of fire leap out.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Out of his nostrils a smoke goes,</p>

<p>as of a boiling pot over a fire of reeds.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His breath kindles coals.</p>

<p>A flame goes out of his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There is strength in his neck.</p>

<p>Terror dances before him.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The flakes of his flesh are joined together.</p>

<p>They are firm on him.</p>

<p>They can’t be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His heart is as firm as a stone,</p>

<p>yes, firm as the lower millstone.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When he raises himself up, the mighty are afraid.</p>

<p>They retreat before his thrashing.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If one attacks him with the sword, it can’t prevail;</p>

<p>nor the spear, the dart, nor the pointed shaft.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He counts iron as straw;</p>

<p>and brass as rotten wood.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The arrow can’t make him flee.</p>

<p>Sling stones are like chaff to him.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Clubs are counted as stubble.</p>

<p>He laughs at the rushing of the javelin.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> His undersides are like sharp potsherds,</p>

<p>leaving a trail in the mud like a threshing sledge.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He makes the deep to boil like a pot.</p>

<p>He makes the sea like a pot of ointment.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He makes a path shine after him.</p>

<p>One would think the deep had white hair.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> On earth there is not his equal,</p>

<p>that is made without fear.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He sees everything that is high.</p>

<p>He is king over all the sons of pride.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Leviathan is a name for a crocodile or similar creature.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>