<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Behold, my eye has seen all this.</p>

<p>My ear has heard and understood it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> What you know, I know also.</p>

<p>I am not inferior to you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Surely I would speak to the Almighty.</p>

<p>I desire to reason with God.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But you are forgers of lies.</p>

<p>You are all physicians of no value.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Oh that you would be completely silent!</p>

<p>Then you would be wise.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear now my reasoning.</p>

<p>Listen to the pleadings of my lips.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will you speak unrighteously for God,</p>

<p>and talk deceitfully for him?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Will you show partiality to him?</p>

<p>Will you contend for God?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is it good that he should search you out?</p>

<p>Or as one deceives a man, will you deceive him?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He will surely reprove you,</p>

<p>if you secretly show partiality.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall not his majesty make you afraid,</p>

<p>And his dread fall on you?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes,</p>

<p>Your defenses are defenses of clay.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “Be silent, leave me alone, that I may speak.</p>

<p>Let come on me what will.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Why should I take my flesh in my teeth,</p>

<p>and put my life in my hand?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, he will kill me.</p>

<p>I have no hope.</p>

<p>Nevertheless, I will maintain my ways before him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> This also shall be my salvation,</p>

<p>that a godless man shall not come before him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Hear diligently my speech.</p>

<p>Let my declaration be in your ears.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> See now, I have set my cause in order.</p>

<p>I know that I am righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who is he who will contend with me?</p>

<p>For then would I hold my peace and give up the spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “Only don’t do two things to me;</p>

<p>then I will not hide myself from your face:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> withdraw your hand far from me;</p>

<p>and don’t let your terror make me afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then call, and I will answer;</p>

<p>or let me speak, and you answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> How many are my iniquities and sins?</p>

<p>Make me know my disobedience and my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Why hide you your face,</p>

<p>and hold me for your enemy?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Will you harass a driven leaf?</p>

<p>Will you pursue the dry stubble?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For you write bitter things against me,</p>

<p>and make me inherit the iniquities of my youth:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> You also put my feet in the stocks,</p>

<p>and mark all my paths.</p>

<p>You set a bound to the soles of my feet,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> though I am decaying like a rotten thing,</p>

<p>like a garment that is moth-eaten.</p>

</body>
</html>