<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Call now; is there any who will answer you?</p>

<p>To which of the holy ones will you turn?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For resentment kills the foolish man,</p>

<p>and jealousy kills the simple.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have seen the foolish taking root,</p>

<p>but suddenly I cursed his habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His children are far from safety.</p>

<p>They are crushed in the gate.</p>

<p>Neither is there any to deliver them,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> whose harvest the hungry eats up,</p>

<p>and take it even out of the thorns.</p>

<p>The snare gapes for their substance.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For affliction doesn’t come out of the dust,</p>

<p>neither does trouble spring out of the ground;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> but man is born to trouble,</p>

<p>as the sparks fly upward.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “But as for me, I would seek God.</p>

<p>I would commit my cause to God,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> who does great things that can’t be fathomed,</p>

<p>marvelous things without number;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> who gives rain on the earth,</p>

<p>and sends waters on the fields;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> so that he sets up on high those who are low,</p>

<p>those who mourn are exalted to safety.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He frustrates the devices of the crafty,</p>

<p>So that their hands can’t perform their enterprise.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He takes the wise in their own craftiness;</p>

<p>the counsel of the cunning is carried headlong.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They meet with darkness in the day time,</p>

<p>and grope at noonday as in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But he saves from the sword of their mouth,</p>

<p>even the needy from the hand of the mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So the poor has hope,</p>

<p>and injustice shuts her mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “Behold, happy is the man whom God corrects.</p>

<p>Therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he wounds, and binds up.</p>

<p>He injures, and his hands make whole.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will deliver you in six troubles;</p>

<p>yes, in seven no evil shall touch you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In famine he will redeem you from death;</p>

<p>in war, from the power of the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You shall be hidden from the scourge of the tongue,</p>

<p>neither shall you be afraid of destruction when it comes.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At destruction and famine you shall laugh,</p>

<p>neither shall you be afraid of the animals of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For you shall be allied with the stones of the field.</p>

<p>The animals of the field shall be at peace with you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> You shall know that your tent is in peace.</p>

<p>You shall visit your fold, and shall miss nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> You shall know also that your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> shall be great,</p>

<p>Your offspring as the grass of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> You shall come to your grave in a full age,</p>

<p>like a shock of grain comes in its season.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Look this, we have searched it, so it is.</p>

<p>Hear it, and know it for your good.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>