<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Can a man be profitable to God?</p>

<p>Surely he who is wise is profitable to himself.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that you are righteous?</p>

<p>Or does it benefit him, that you make your ways perfect?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Is it for your piety that he reproves you,</p>

<p>that he enters with you into judgment?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Isn’t your wickedness great?</p>

<p>Neither is there any end to your iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For you have taken pledges from your brother for nothing,</p>

<p>and stripped the naked of their clothing.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You haven’t given water to the weary to drink,</p>

<p>and you have withheld bread from the hungry.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But as for the mighty man, he had the earth.</p>

<p>The honorable man, he lived in it.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have sent widows away empty,</p>

<p>and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore snares are around you.</p>

<p>Sudden fear troubles you,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> or darkness, so that you can not see,</p>

<p>and floods of waters cover you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Isn’t God in the heights of heaven?</p>

<p>See the height of the stars, how high they are!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You say, ‘What does God know?</p>

<p>Can he judge through the thick darkness?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thick clouds are a covering to him, so that he doesn’t see.</p>

<p>He walks on the vault of the sky.’</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Will you keep the old way,</p>

<p>which wicked men have trodden,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> who were snatched away before their time,</p>

<p>whose foundation was poured out as a stream,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> who said to God, ‘Depart from us;’</p>

<p>and, ‘What can the Almighty do for us?’</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yet he filled their houses with good things,</p>

<p>but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The righteous see it, and are glad.</p>

<p>The innocent ridicule them,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> saying, ‘Surely those who rose up against us are cut off.</p>

<p>The fire has consumed their remnant.’</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “Acquaint yourself with him, now, and be at peace.</p>

<p>Thereby good shall come to you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Please receive instruction from his mouth,</p>

<p>and lay up his words in your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If you return to the Almighty, you shall be built up,</p>

<p>if you put away unrighteousness far from your tents.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Lay your treasure in the dust,</p>

<p>the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The Almighty will be your treasure,</p>

<p>and precious silver to you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty,</p>

<p>and shall lift up your face to God.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> You shall make your prayer to him, and he will hear you.</p>

<p>You shall pay your vows.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You shall also decree a thing, and it shall be established to you.</p>

<p>Light shall shine on your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When they cast down, you shall say, ‘be lifted up.’</p>

<p>He will save the humble person.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He will even deliver him who is not innocent.</p>

<p>Yes, he shall be delivered through the cleanness of your hands.”</p>

</body>
</html>