<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Job again took up his parable, and said,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “As God lives, who has taken away my right,</p>

<p>the Almighty, who has made my soul bitter</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> (for the length of my life is still in me,</p>

<p>and the spirit of God is in my nostrils);</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> surely my lips shall not speak unrighteousness,</p>

<p>neither shall my tongue utter deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Far be it from me that I should justify you.</p>

<p>Until I die I will not put away my integrity from me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I hold fast to my righteousness, and will not let it go.</p>

<p>My heart shall not reproach me so long as I live.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Let my enemy be as the wicked.</p>

<p>Let him who rises up against me be as the unrighteous.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For what is the hope of the godless, when he is cut off, when God takes away his life?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will God hear his cry when trouble comes on him?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Will he delight himself in the Almighty,</p>

<p>and call on God at all times?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will teach you about the hand of God.</p>

<p>That which is with the Almighty will I not conceal.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, all of you have seen it yourselves;</p>

<p>why then have you become altogether vain?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “This is the portion of a wicked man with God,</p>

<p>the heritage of oppressors, which they receive from the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If his children are multiplied, it is for the sword.</p>

<p>His offspring shall not be satisfied with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Those who remain of him shall be buried in death.</p>

<p>His widows shall make no lamentation.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Though he heap up silver as the dust,</p>

<p>and prepare clothing as the clay;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> he may prepare it, but the just shall put it on,</p>

<p>and the innocent shall divide the silver.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He builds his house as the moth,</p>

<p>as a booth which the watchman makes.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He lies down rich, but he shall not do so again.</p>

<p>He opens his eyes, and he is not.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Terrors overtake him like waters.</p>

<p>A storm steals him away in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The east wind carries him away, and he departs.</p>

<p>It sweeps him out of his place.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For it hurls at him, and does not spare,</p>

<p>as he flees away from his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Men shall clap their hands at him,</p>

<p>and shall hiss him out of his place.</p>

</body>
</html>