<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this Job opened his mouth, and cursed the day of his birth. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Job answered:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Let the day perish in which I was born,</p>

<p>the night which said, ‘There is a boy conceived.’</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let that day be darkness.</p>

<p>Don’t let God from above seek for it,</p>

<p>neither let the light shine on it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let darkness and the shadow of death claim it for their own.</p>

<p>Let a cloud dwell on it.</p>

<p>Let all that makes black the day terrify it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As for that night, let thick darkness seize on it.</p>

<p>Let it not rejoice among the days of the year.</p>

<p>Let it not come into the number of the months.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, let that night be barren.</p>

<p>Let no joyful voice come therein.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let them curse it who curse the day,</p>

<p>who are ready to rouse up leviathan.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let the stars of its twilight be dark.</p>

<p>Let it look for light, but have none,</p>

<p>neither let it see the eyelids of the morning,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> because it didn’t shut up the doors of my mother’s womb,</p>

<p>nor did it hide trouble from my eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Why didn’t I die from the womb?</p>

<p>Why didn’t I give up the spirit when my mother bore me?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why did the knees receive me?</p>

<p>Or why the breast, that I should nurse?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For now should I have lain down and been quiet.</p>

<p>I should have slept, then I would have been at rest,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> with kings and counselors of the earth,</p>

<p>who built up waste places for themselves;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> or with princes who had gold,</p>

<p>who filled their houses with silver:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> or as a hidden untimely birth I had not been,</p>

<p>as infants who never saw light.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There the wicked cease from troubling.</p>

<p>There the weary are at rest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There the prisoners are at ease together.</p>

<p>They don’t hear the voice of the taskmaster.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The small and the great are there.</p>

<p>The servant is free from his master.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “Why is light given to him who is in misery,</p>

<p>life to the bitter in soul,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Who long for death, but it doesn’t come;</p>

<p>and dig for it more than for hidden treasures,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> who rejoice exceedingly,</p>

<p>and are glad, when they can find the grave?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Why is light given to a man whose way is hidden,</p>

<p>whom God has hedged in?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For my sighing comes before I eat.</p>

<p>My groanings are poured out like water.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For the thing which I fear comes on me,</p>

<p>That which I am afraid of comes to me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I am not at ease, neither am I quiet, neither have I rest;</p>

<p>but trouble comes.”</p>

</body>
</html>