<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. <a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel, the Buzite, of the family of Ram, was kindled against Job. His wrath was kindled because he justified himself rather than God. <a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also his wrath was kindled against his three friends, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. <a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now Elihu had waited to speak to Job, because they were elder than he. <a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, his wrath was kindled.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered,</p>

<p>“I am young, and you are very old;</p>

<p>Therefore I held back, and didn’t dare show you my opinion.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I said, ‘Days should speak,</p>

<p>and multitude of years should teach wisdom.’</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But there is a spirit in man,</p>

<p>and the breath of the Almighty gives them understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is not the great who are wise,</p>

<p>nor the aged who understand justice.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore I said, ‘Listen to me;</p>

<p>I also will show my opinion.’</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Behold, I waited for your words,</p>

<p>and I listened for your reasoning,</p>

<p>while you searched out what to say.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yes, I gave you my full attention,</p>

<p>but there was no one who convinced Job,</p>

<p>or who answered his words, among you.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Beware lest you say, ‘We have found wisdom,</p>

<p>God may refute him, not man;’</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for he has not directed his words against me;</p>

<p>neither will I answer him with your speeches.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “They are amazed. They answer no more.</p>

<p>They don’t have a word to say.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Shall I wait, because they don’t speak,</p>

<p>because they stand still, and answer no more?</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I also will answer my part,</p>

<p>and I also will show my opinion.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I am full of words.</p>

<p>The spirit within me constrains me.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, my breast is as wine which has no vent;</p>

<p>like new wineskins it is ready to burst.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I will speak, that I may be refreshed.</p>

<p>I will open my lips and answer.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Please don’t let me respect any man’s person,</p>

<p>neither will I give flattering titles to any man.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I don’t know how to give flattering titles;</p>

<p>or else my Maker would soon take me away.</p>

</body>
</html>