<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Listen diligently to my speech.</p>

<p>Let this be your consolation.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Allow me, and I also will speak;</p>

<p>After I have spoken, mock on.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As for me, is my complaint to man?</p>

<p>Why shouldn’t I be impatient?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Look at me, and be astonished.</p>

<p>Lay your hand on your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When I remember, I am troubled.</p>

<p>Horror takes hold of my flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Why do the wicked live,</p>

<p>become old, yes, and grow mighty in power?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their child is established with them in their sight,</p>

<p>their offspring before their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Their houses are safe from fear,</p>

<p>neither is the rod of God upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Their bulls breed without fail.</p>

<p>Their cows calve, and don’t miscarry.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They send out their little ones like a flock.</p>

<p>Their children dance.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They sing to the tambourine and harp,</p>

<p>and rejoice at the sound of the pipe.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They spend their days in prosperity.</p>

<p>In an instant they go down to Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They tell God, ‘Depart from us,</p>

<p>for we don’t want to know about your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What is the Almighty, that we should serve him?</p>

<p>What profit should we have, if we pray to him?’</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, their prosperity is not in their hand.</p>

<p>The counsel of the wicked is far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “How often is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out,</p>

<p>that their calamity comes on them,</p>

<p>that God distributes sorrows in his anger?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> How often is it that they are as stubble before the wind,</p>

<p>as chaff that the storm carries away?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You say, ‘God lays up his iniquity for his children.’</p>

<p>Let him recompense it to himself, that he may know it.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Let his own eyes see his destruction.</p>

<p>Let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For what does he care for his house after him,</p>

<p>when the number of his months is cut off?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “Shall any teach God knowledge,</p>

<p>since he judges those who are high?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> One dies in his full strength,</p>

<p>being wholly at ease and quiet.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His pails are full of milk.</p>

<p>The marrow of his bones is moistened.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Another dies in bitterness of soul,</p>

<p>and never tastes of good.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They lie down alike in the dust.</p>

<p>The worm covers them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “Behold, I know your thoughts,</p>

<p>the devices with which you would wrong me.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For you say, ‘Where is the house of the prince?</p>

<p>Where is the tent in which the wicked lived?’</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Haven’t you asked wayfaring men?</p>

<p>Don’t you know their evidences,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> that the evil man is reserved to the day of calamity,</p>

<p>That they are led out to the day of wrath?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Who shall declare his way to his face?</p>

<p>Who shall repay him what he has done?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Yet he will be borne to the grave.</p>

<p>Men shall keep watch over the tomb.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The clods of the valley shall be sweet to him.</p>

<p>All men shall draw after him,</p>

<p>as there were innumerable before him.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> So how can you comfort me with nonsense,</p>

<p>because in your answers there remains only falsehood?”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead. </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>