<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Bildad the Shuhite answered,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “How long will you speak these things?</p>

<p>Shall the words of your mouth be a mighty wind?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Does God pervert justice?</p>

<p>Or does the Almighty pervert righteousness?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If your children have sinned against him,</p>

<p>He has delivered them into the hand of their disobedience.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If you want to seek God diligently,</p>

<p>make your supplication to the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If you were pure and upright,</p>

<p>surely now he would awaken for you,</p>

<p>and make the habitation of your righteousness prosperous.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Though your beginning was small,</p>

<p>yet your latter end would greatly increase.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Please inquire of past generations.</p>

<p>Find out about the learning of their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (For we are but of yesterday, and know nothing,</p>

<p>because our days on earth are a shadow.)</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Shall they not teach you, tell you,</p>

<p>and utter words out of their heart?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Can the papyrus grow up without mire?</p>

<p>Can the rushes grow without water?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While it is yet in its greenness, not cut down,</p>

<p>it withers before any other reed.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So are the paths of all who forget God.</p>

<p>The hope of the godless man shall perish,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whose confidence shall break apart,</p>

<p>Whose trust is a spider’s web.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He shall lean on his house, but it shall not stand.</p>

<p>He shall cling to it, but it shall not endure.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He is green before the sun.</p>

<p>His shoots go out along his garden.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His roots are wrapped around the rock pile.</p>

<p>He sees the place of stones.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If he is destroyed from his place,</p>

<p>then it shall deny him, saying, ‘I have not seen you.’</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, this is the joy of his way:</p>

<p>out of the earth, others shall spring.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “Behold, God will not cast away a blameless man,</p>

<p>neither will he uphold the evildoers.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He will still fill your mouth with laughter,</p>

<p>your lips with shouting.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Those who hate you shall be clothed with shame.</p>

<p>The tent of the wicked shall be no more.”</p>

</body>
</html>