<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Isn’t a man forced to labor on earth?</p>

<p>Aren’t his days like the days of a hired hand?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As a servant who earnestly desires the shadow,</p>

<p>as a hireling who looks for his wages,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> so am I made to possess months of misery,</p>

<p>wearisome nights are appointed to me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When I lie down, I say,</p>

<p>‘When shall I arise, and the night be gone?’</p>

<p>I toss and turn until the dawning of the day.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust.</p>

<p>My skin closes up, and breaks out afresh.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle,</p>

<p>and are spent without hope.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Oh remember that my life is a breath.</p>

<p>My eye shall no more see good.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The eye of him who sees me shall see me no more.</p>

<p>Your eyes shall be on me, but I shall not be.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As the cloud is consumed and vanishes away,</p>

<p>so he who goes down to Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> shall come up no more.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He shall return no more to his house,</p>

<p>neither shall his place know him any more.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Therefore I will not keep silent.</p>

<p>I will speak in the anguish of my spirit.</p>

<p>I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Am I a sea, or a sea monster,</p>

<p>that you put a guard over me?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When I say, ‘My bed shall comfort me.</p>

<p>My couch shall ease my complaint;’</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> then you scare me with dreams,</p>

<p>and terrify me through visions:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> so that my soul chooses strangling,</p>

<p>death rather than my bones.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I loathe my life.</p>

<p>I don’t want to live forever.</p>

<p>Leave me alone, for my days are but a breath.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> What is man, that you should magnify him,</p>

<p>that you should set your mind on him,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> that you should visit him every morning,</p>

<p>and test him every moment?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How long will you not look away from me,</p>

<p>nor leave me alone until I swallow down my spittle?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If I have sinned, what do I do to you, you watcher of men?</p>

<p>Why have you set me as a mark for you,</p>

<p>so that I am a burden to myself?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Why do you not pardon my disobedience, and take away my iniquity?</p>

<p>For now shall I lie down in the dust.</p>

<p>You will seek me diligently, but I shall not be.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>