<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “My soul is weary of my life.</p>

<p>I will give free course to my complaint.</p>

<p>I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will tell God, ‘Do not condemn me.</p>

<p>Show me why you contend with me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is it good to you that you should oppress,</p>

<p>that you should despise the work of your hands,</p>

<p>and smile on the counsel of the wicked?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Do you have eyes of flesh?</p>

<p>Or do you see as man sees?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Are your days as the days of mortals,</p>

<p>or your years as man’s years,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that you inquire after my iniquity,</p>

<p>and search after my sin?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Although you know that I am not wicked,</p>

<p>there is no one who can deliver out of your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “‘Your hands have framed me and fashioned me altogether,</p>

<p>yet you destroy me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember, I beg you, that you have fashioned me as clay.</p>

<p>Will you bring me into dust again?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Haven’t you poured me out like milk,</p>

<p>and curdled me like cheese?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You have clothed me with skin and flesh,</p>

<p>and knit me together with bones and sinews.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You have granted me life and loving kindness.</p>

<p>Your visitation has preserved my spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet you hid these things in your heart.</p>

<p>I know that this is with you:</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> if I sin, then you mark me.</p>

<p>You will not acquit me from my iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I am wicked, woe to me.</p>

<p>If I am righteous, I still shall not lift up my head,</p>

<p>being filled with disgrace,</p>

<p>and conscious of my affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If my head is held high, you hunt me like a lion.</p>

<p>Again you show yourself powerful to me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You renew your witnesses against me,</p>

<p>and increase your indignation on me.</p>

<p>Changes and warfare are with me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “‘Why, then, have you brought me out of the womb?</p>

<p>I wish I had given up the spirit, and no eye had seen me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I should have been as though I had not been.</p>

<p>I should have been carried from the womb to the grave.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Aren’t my days few?</p>

<p>Cease then.</p>

<p>Leave me alone, that I may find a little comfort,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> before I go where I shall not return from,</p>

<p>to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> the land dark as midnight,</p>

<p>of the shadow of death,</p>

<p>without any order,</p>

<p>where the light is as midnight.’”</p>

</body>
</html>