<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Do you know the time when the mountain goats give birth?</p>

<p>Do you watch when the doe bears fawns?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Can you count the months that they fulfill?</p>

<p>Or do you know the time when they give birth?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They bow themselves, they bear their young.</p>

<p>They end their labor pains.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their young ones become strong.</p>

<p>They grow up in the open field.</p>

<p>They go out, and don’t return again.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Who has set the wild donkey free?</p>

<p>Or who has loosened the bonds of the swift donkey,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whose home I have made the wilderness,</p>

<p>and the salt land his dwelling place?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He scorns the tumult of the city,</p>

<p>neither does he hear the shouting of the driver.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The range of the mountains is his pasture,</p>

<p>He searches after every green thing.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “Will the wild ox be content to serve you?</p>

<p>Or will he stay by your feeding trough?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Can you hold the wild ox in the furrow with his harness?</p>

<p>Or will he till the valleys after you?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Will you trust him, because his strength is great?</p>

<p>Or will you leave to him your labor?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Will you confide in him, that he will bring home your seed,</p>

<p>and gather the grain of your threshing floor?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “The wings of the ostrich wave proudly;</p>

<p>but are they the feathers and plumage of love?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For she leaves her eggs on the earth,</p>

<p>warms them in the dust,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and forgets that the foot may crush them,</p>

<p>or that the wild animal may trample them.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> She deals harshly with her young ones, as if they were not hers.</p>

<p>Though her labor is in vain, she is without fear,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> because God has deprived her of wisdom,</p>

<p>neither has he imparted to her understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When she lifts up herself on high,</p>

<p>she scorns the horse and his rider.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “Have you given the horse might?</p>

<p>Have you clothed his neck with a quivering mane?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Have you made him to leap as a locust?</p>

<p>The glory of his snorting is awesome.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He paws in the valley, and rejoices in his strength.</p>

<p>He goes out to meet the armed men.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He mocks at fear, and is not dismayed,</p>

<p>neither does he turn back from the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The quiver rattles against him,</p>

<p>the flashing spear and the javelin.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He eats up the ground with fierceness and rage,</p>

<p>neither does he stand still at the sound of the trumpet.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As often as the trumpet sounds he snorts, ‘Aha!’</p>

<p>He smells the battle afar off,</p>

<p>the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “Is it by your wisdom that the hawk soars,</p>

<p>and stretches her wings toward the south?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Is it at your command that the eagle mounts up,</p>

<p>and makes his nest on high?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> On the cliff he dwells, and makes his home,</p>

<p>on the point of the cliff, and the stronghold.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> From there he spies out the prey.</p>

<p>His eyes see it afar off.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> His young ones also suck up blood.</p>

<p>Where the slain are, there he is.”</p>

</body>
</html>