<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “How have you helped him who is without power!</p>

<p>How have you saved the arm that has no strength!</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> How have you counseled him who has no wisdom,</p>

<p>and plentifully declared sound knowledge!</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To whom have you uttered words?</p>

<p>Whose spirit came out of you?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “The departed spirits tremble,</p>

<p>those beneath the waters and all that live in them.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is naked before God,</p>

<p>and Abaddon<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> has no covering.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He stretches out the north over empty space,</p>

<p>and hangs the earth on nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He binds up the waters in his thick clouds,</p>

<p>and the cloud is not burst under them.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He encloses the face of his throne,</p>

<p>and spreads his cloud on it.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has described a boundary on the surface of the waters,</p>

<p>and to the confines of light and darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The pillars of heaven tremble</p>

<p>and are astonished at his rebuke.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He stirs up the sea with his power,</p>

<p>and by his understanding he strikes through Rahab.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> By his Spirit the heavens are garnished.</p>

<p>His hand has pierced the swift serpent.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, these are but the outskirts of his ways.</p>

<p>How small a whisper do we hear of him!</p>

<p>But the thunder of his power who can understand?”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the lower world or the grave.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Abaddon means Destroyer.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>