<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Truly I know that it is so,</p>

<p>but how can man be just with God?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If he is pleased to contend with him,</p>

<p>he can’t answer him one time in a thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> God who is wise in heart, and mighty in strength:</p>

<p>who has hardened himself against him, and prospered?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He removes the mountains, and they don’t know it,</p>

<p>when he overturns them in his anger.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He shakes the earth out of its place.</p>

<p>Its pillars tremble.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He commands the sun, and it doesn’t rise,</p>

<p>and seals up the stars.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He alone stretches out the heavens,</p>

<p>and treads on the waves of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He makes the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades,</p>

<p>and the rooms of the south.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He does great things past finding out;</p>

<p>yes, marvelous things without number.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, he goes by me, and I don’t see him.</p>

<p>He passes on also, but I don’t perceive him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, he snatches away.</p>

<p>Who can hinder him?</p>

<p>Who will ask him, ‘What are you doing?’</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “God will not withdraw his anger.</p>

<p>The helpers of Rahab stoop under him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How much less shall I answer him,</p>

<p>And choose my words to argue with him?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though I were righteous, yet I wouldn’t answer him.</p>

<p>I would make supplication to my judge.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If I had called, and he had answered me,</p>

<p>yet I wouldn’t believe that he listened to my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For he breaks me with a storm,</p>

<p>and multiplies my wounds without cause.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He will not allow me to catch my breath,</p>

<p>but fills me with bitterness.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If it is a matter of strength, behold, he is mighty!</p>

<p>If of justice, ‘Who,’ says he, ‘will summon me?’</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Though I am righteous, my own mouth shall condemn me.</p>

<p>Though I am blameless, it shall prove me perverse.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I am blameless.</p>

<p>I don’t respect myself.</p>

<p>I despise my life.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “It is all the same.</p>

<p>Therefore I say he destroys the blameless and the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If the scourge kills suddenly,</p>

<p>he will mock at the trial of the innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The earth is given into the hand of the wicked.</p>

<p>He covers the faces of its judges.</p>

<p>If not he, then who is it?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “Now my days are swifter than a runner.</p>

<p>They flee away, they see no good.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They have passed away as the swift ships,</p>

<p>as the eagle that swoops on the prey.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If I say, ‘I will forget my complaint,</p>

<p>I will put off my sad face, and cheer up;’</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I am afraid of all my sorrows,</p>

<p>I know that you will not hold me innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I shall be condemned.</p>

<p>Why then do I labor in vain?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If I wash myself with snow,</p>

<p>and cleanse my hands with lye,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> yet you will plunge me in the ditch.</p>

<p>My own clothes shall abhor me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him,</p>

<p>that we should come together in judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> There is no umpire between us,</p>

<p>that might lay his hand on us both.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let him take his rod away from me.</p>

<p>Let his terror not make me afraid;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> then I would speak, and not fear him,</p>

<p>for I am not so in myself.</p>

</body>
</html>