<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “My spirit is consumed.</p>

<p>My days are extinct,</p>

<p>And the grave is ready for me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Surely there are mockers with me.</p>

<p>My eye dwells on their provocation.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Now give a pledge, be collateral for me with yourself.</p>

<p>Who is there who will strike hands with me?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you have hidden their heart from understanding,</p>

<p>Therefore you shall not exalt them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He who denounces his friends for plunder,</p>

<p>Even the eyes of his children shall fail.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “But he has made me a byword of the people.</p>

<p>They spit in my face.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My eye also is dim by reason of sorrow.</p>

<p>All my members are as a shadow.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Upright men shall be astonished at this.</p>

<p>The innocent shall stir up himself against the godless.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yet shall the righteous hold on his way.</p>

<p>He who has clean hands shall grow stronger and stronger.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But as for you all, come on now again;</p>

<p>I shall not find a wise man among you.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days are past, my plans are broken off,</p>

<p>as are the thoughts of my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They change the night into day,</p>

<p>saying ‘The light is near’ in the presence of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I look for Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> as my house,</p>

<p>if I have spread my couch in the darkness,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I have said to corruption, ‘You are my father;’</p>

<p>to the worm, ‘My mother,’ and ‘my sister;’</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> where then is my hope?</p>

<p>as for my hope, who shall see it?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Shall it go down with me to the gates of Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>or descend together into the dust?”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>