<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Elihu answered,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Hear my words, you wise men.</p>

<p>Give ear to me, you who have knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the ear tries words,</p>

<p>as the palate tastes food.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let us choose for us that which is right.</p>

<p>Let us know among ourselves what is good.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Job has said, ‘I am righteous,</p>

<p>God has taken away my right:</p>

<p><a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Notwithstanding my right I am considered a liar.</p>

<p>My wound is incurable, though I am without disobedience.’</p>

<p><a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What man is like Job,</p>

<p>who drinks scorn like water,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who goes in company with the workers of iniquity,</p>

<p>and walks with wicked men?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he has said, ‘It profits a man nothing</p>

<p>that he should delight himself with God.’</p>

<p><a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Therefore listen to me, you men of understanding:</p>

<p>far be it from God, that he should do wickedness,</p>

<p>from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the work of a man he will render to him,</p>

<p>and cause every man to find according to his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yes surely, God will not do wickedly,</p>

<p>neither will the Almighty pervert justice.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who put him in charge of the earth?</p>

<p>or who has appointed him over the whole world?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If he set his heart on himself,</p>

<p>If he gathered to himself his spirit and his breath,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> all flesh would perish together,</p>

<p>and man would turn again to dust.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “If now you have understanding, hear this.</p>

<p>Listen to the voice of my words.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shall even one who hates justice govern?</p>

<p>Will you condemn him who is righteous and mighty?—</p>

<p><a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Who says to a king, ‘Vile!’</p>

<p>or to nobles, ‘Wicked!’?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who doesn’t respect the persons of princes,</p>

<p>nor respects the rich more than the poor;</p>

<p>for they all are the work of his hands.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In a moment they die, even at midnight.</p>

<p>The people are shaken and pass away.</p>

<p>The mighty are taken away without a hand.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “For his eyes are on the ways of a man.</p>

<p>He sees all his goings.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There is no darkness, nor thick gloom,</p>

<p>where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For he doesn’t need to consider a man further,</p>

<p>that he should go before God in judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He breaks in pieces mighty men in ways past finding out,</p>

<p>and sets others in their place.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore he takes knowledge of their works.</p>

<p>He overturns them in the night, so that they are destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He strikes them as wicked men</p>

<p>in the open sight of others;</p>

<p><a id="c34_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> because they turned aside from following him,</p>

<p>and wouldn’t pay attention to any of his ways,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> so that they caused the cry of the poor to come to him.</p>

<p>He heard the cry of the afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When he gives quietness, who then can condemn?</p>

<p>When he hides his face, who then can see him?</p>

<p>Alike whether to a nation, or to a man,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> that the godless man may not reign,</p>

<p>that there be no one to ensnare the people.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “For has any said to God,</p>

<p>‘I am guilty, but I will not offend any more.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Teach me that which I don’t see.</p>

<p>If I have done iniquity, I will do it no more’?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Shall his recompense be as you desire, that you refuse it?</p>

<p>For you must choose, and not I.</p>

<p>Therefore speak what you know.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Men of understanding will tell me,</p>

<p>yes, every wise man who hears me:</p>

<p><a id="c34_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> ‘Job speaks without knowledge.</p>

<p>His words are without wisdom.’</p>

<p><a id="c34_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> I wish that Job were tried to the end,</p>

<p>because of his answering like wicked men.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For he adds rebellion to his sin.</p>

<p>He claps his hands among us,</p>

<p>and multiplies his words against God.”</p>

</body>
</html>