<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Yahweh answered Job,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Shall he who argues contend with the Almighty?</p>

<p>He who argues with God, let him answer it.”</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Job answered Yahweh,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Behold, I am of small account. What shall I answer you?</p>

<p>I lay my hand on my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have spoken once, and I will not answer;</p>

<p>Yes, twice, but I will proceed no further.”</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then Yahweh answered Job out of the whirlwind,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Now brace yourself like a man.</p>

<p>I will question you, and you will answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Will you even annul my judgment?</p>

<p>Will you condemn me, that you may be justified?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Or do you have an arm like God?</p>

<p>Can you thunder with a voice like him?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Now deck yourself with excellency and dignity.</p>

<p>Array yourself with honor and majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Pour out the fury of your anger.</p>

<p>Look at everyone who is proud, and bring him low.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Look at everyone who is proud, and humble him.</p>

<p>Crush the wicked in their place.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hide them in the dust together.</p>

<p>Bind their faces in the hidden place.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then I will also admit to you</p>

<p>that your own right hand can save you.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “See now, behemoth, which I made as well as you.</p>

<p>He eats grass as an ox.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Look now, his strength is in his thighs.</p>

<p>His force is in the muscles of his belly.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He moves his tail like a cedar.</p>

<p>The sinews of his thighs are knit together.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His bones are like tubes of brass.</p>

<p>His limbs are like bars of iron.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He is the chief of the ways of God.</p>

<p>He who made him gives him his sword.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Surely the mountains produce food for him,</p>

<p>where all the animals of the field play.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He lies under the lotus trees,</p>

<p>in the covert of the reed, and the marsh.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The lotuses cover him with their shade.</p>

<p>The willows of the brook surround him.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Behold, if a river overflows, he doesn’t tremble.</p>

<p>He is confident, though the Jordan swells even to his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shall any take him when he is on the watch,</p>

<p>or pierce through his nose with a snare?</p>

</body>
</html>