<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “However, Job, please hear my speech,</p>

<p>and listen to all my words.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> See now, I have opened my mouth.</p>

<p>My tongue has spoken in my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My words shall utter the uprightness of my heart.</p>

<p>That which my lips know they shall speak sincerely.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Spirit of God has made me,</p>

<p>and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If you can, answer me.</p>

<p>Set your words in order before me, and stand up.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, I am toward God even as you are.</p>

<p>I am also formed out of the clay.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, my terror shall not make you afraid,</p>

<p>neither shall my pressure be heavy on you.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Surely you have spoken in my hearing,</p>

<p>I have heard the voice of your words, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> ‘I am clean, without disobedience.</p>

<p>I am innocent, neither is there iniquity in me.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, he finds occasions against me.</p>

<p>He counts me for his enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He puts my feet in the stocks.</p>

<p>He marks all my paths.’</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Behold, I will answer you. In this you are not just,</p>

<p>for God is greater than man.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Why do you strive against him,</p>

<p>because he doesn’t give account of any of his matters?</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For God speaks once,</p>

<p>yes twice, though man pays no attention.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In a dream, in a vision of the night,</p>

<p>when deep sleep falls on men,</p>

<p>in slumbering on the bed;</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then he opens the ears of men,</p>

<p>and seals their instruction,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> That he may withdraw man from his purpose,</p>

<p>and hide pride from man.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He keeps back his soul from the pit,</p>

<p>and his life from perishing by the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He is chastened also with pain on his bed,</p>

<p>with continual strife in his bones;</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So that his life abhors bread,</p>

<p>and his soul dainty food.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His flesh is so consumed away, that it can’t be seen.</p>

<p>His bones that were not seen stick out.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yes, his soul draws near to the pit,</p>

<p>and his life to the destroyers.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “If there is beside him an angel,</p>

<p>an interpreter, one among a thousand,</p>

<p>to show to man what is right for him;</p>

<p><a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> then God is gracious to him, and says,</p>

<p>‘Deliver him from going down to the pit,</p>

<p>I have found a ransom.’</p>

<p><a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> His flesh shall be fresher than a child’s.</p>

<p>He returns to the days of his youth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He prays to God, and he is favorable to him,</p>

<p>so that he sees his face with joy.</p>

<p>He restores to man his righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He sings before men, and says,</p>

<p>‘I have sinned, and perverted that which was right,</p>

<p>and it didn’t profit me.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He has redeemed my soul from going into the pit.</p>

<p>My life shall see the light.’</p>

<p><a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “Behold, God does all these things,</p>

<p>twice, yes three times, with a man,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> to bring back his soul from the pit,</p>

<p>that he may be enlightened with the light of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Mark well, Job, and listen to me.</p>

<p>Hold your peace, and I will speak.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If you have anything to say, answer me.</p>

<p>Speak, for I desire to justify you.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If not, listen to me.</p>

<p>Hold your peace, and I will teach you wisdom.”</p>

</body>
</html>