<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Man, who is born of a woman,</p>

<p>is of few days, and full of trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He grows up like a flower, and is cut down.</p>

<p>He also flees like a shadow, and doesn’t continue.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do you open your eyes on such a one,</p>

<p>and bring me into judgment with you?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean?</p>

<p>Not one.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Seeing his days are determined,</p>

<p>the number of his months is with you,</p>

<p>and you have appointed his bounds that he can’t pass;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Look away from him, that he may rest,</p>

<p>until he shall accomplish, as a hireling, his day.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “For there is hope for a tree,</p>

<p>If it is cut down, that it will sprout again,</p>

<p>that the tender branch of it will not cease.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Though its root grows old in the earth,</p>

<p>and its stock dies in the ground,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> yet through the scent of water it will bud,</p>

<p>and sprout boughs like a plant.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But man dies, and is laid low.</p>

<p>Yes, man gives up the spirit, and where is he?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As the waters fail from the sea,</p>

<p>and the river wastes and dries up,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> so man lies down and doesn’t rise.</p>

<p>Until the heavens are no more, they shall not awake,</p>

<p>nor be roused out of their sleep.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “Oh that you would hide me in Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>that you would keep me secret, until your wrath is past,</p>

<p>that you would appoint me a set time, and remember me!</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If a man dies, shall he live again?</p>

<p>All the days of my warfare would I wait,</p>

<p>until my release should come.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You would call, and I would answer you.</p>

<p>You would have a desire to the work of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now you count my steps.</p>

<p>Don’t you watch over my sin?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My disobedience is sealed up in a bag.</p>

<p>You fasten up my iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “But the mountain falling comes to nothing.</p>

<p>The rock is removed out of its place;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The waters wear the stones.</p>

<p>The torrents of it wash away the dust of the earth.</p>

<p>So you destroy the hope of man.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You forever prevail against him, and he departs.</p>

<p>You change his face, and send him away.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His sons come to honor, and he doesn’t know it.</p>

<p>They are brought low, but he doesn’t perceive it of them.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But his flesh on him has pain,</p>

<p>and his soul within him mourns.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead. </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>