<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Elihu also continued, and said,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Bear with me a little, and I will show you;</p>

<p>for I still have something to say on God’s behalf.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will get my knowledge from afar,</p>

<p>and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For truly my words are not false.</p>

<p>One who is perfect in knowledge is with you.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Behold, God is mighty, and doesn’t despise anyone.</p>

<p>He is mighty in strength of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He doesn’t preserve the life of the wicked,</p>

<p>but gives to the afflicted their right.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He doesn’t withdraw his eyes from the righteous,</p>

<p>but with kings on the throne,</p>

<p>he sets them forever, and they are exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If they are bound in fetters,</p>

<p>and are taken in the cords of afflictions,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> then he shows them their work,</p>

<p>and their transgressions, that they have behaved themselves proudly.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He also opens their ears to instruction,</p>

<p>and commands that they return from iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they listen and serve him,</p>

<p>they shall spend their days in prosperity,</p>

<p>and their years in pleasures.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if they don’t listen, they shall perish by the sword;</p>

<p>they shall die without knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “But those who are godless in heart lay up anger.</p>

<p>They don’t cry for help when he binds them.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They die in youth.</p>

<p>Their life perishes among the unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He delivers the afflicted by their affliction,</p>

<p>and opens their ear in oppression.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yes, he would have allured you out of distress,</p>

<p>into a wide place, where there is no restriction.</p>

<p>That which is set on your table would be full of fatness.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “But you are full of the judgment of the wicked.</p>

<p>Judgment and justice take hold of you.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Don’t let riches entice you to wrath,</p>

<p>neither let the great size of a bribe turn you aside.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Would your wealth sustain you in distress,</p>

<p>or all the might of your strength?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Don’t desire the night,</p>

<p>when people are cut off in their place.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Take heed, don’t regard iniquity;</p>

<p>for you have chosen this rather than affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold, God is exalted in his power.</p>

<p>Who is a teacher like him?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who has prescribed his way for him?</p>

<p>Or who can say, ‘You have committed unrighteousness?’</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “Remember that you magnify his work,</p>

<p>whereof men have sung.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All men have looked on it.</p>

<p>Man sees it afar off.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Behold, God is great, and we don’t know him.</p>

<p>The number of his years is unsearchable.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For he draws up the drops of water,</p>

<p>which distill in rain from his vapor,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Which the skies pour down</p>

<p>and which drop on man abundantly.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Yes, can any understand the spreading of the clouds,</p>

<p>and the thunderings of his pavilion?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Behold, he spreads his light around him.</p>

<p>He covers the bottom of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For by these he judges the people.</p>

<p>He gives food in abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He covers his hands with the lightning,</p>

<p>and commands it to strike the mark.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Its noise tells about him,</p>

<p>and the livestock also concerning the storm that comes up.</p>

</body>
</html>