<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Job again took up his parable, and said,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Oh that I were as in the months of old,</p>

<p>as in the days when God watched over me;</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> when his lamp shone on my head,</p>

<p>and by his light I walked through darkness,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> as I was in the ripeness of my days,</p>

<p>when the friendship of God was in my tent,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> when the Almighty was yet with me,</p>

<p>and my children were around me,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> when my steps were washed with butter,</p>

<p>and the rock poured out streams of oil for me,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> when I went out to the city gate,</p>

<p>when I prepared my seat in the street.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The young men saw me and hid themselves.</p>

<p>The aged rose up and stood.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The princes refrained from talking,</p>

<p>and laid their hand on their mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The voice of the nobles was hushed,</p>

<p>and their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For when the ear heard me, then it blessed me;</p>

<p>and when the eye saw me, it commended me:</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because I delivered the poor who cried,</p>

<p>and the fatherless also, who had no one to help him,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> the blessing of him who was ready to perish came on me,</p>

<p>and I caused the widow’s heart to sing for joy.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I put on righteousness, and it clothed me.</p>

<p>My justice was as a robe and a diadem.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I was eyes to the blind,</p>

<p>and feet to the lame.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I was a father to the needy.</p>

<p>The cause of him who I didn’t know, I searched out.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I broke the jaws of the unrighteous,</p>

<p>and plucked the prey out of his teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then I said, ‘I shall die in my own house,</p>

<p>I shall count my days as the sand.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My root is spread out to the waters.</p>

<p>The dew lies all night on my branch.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My glory is fresh in me.</p>

<p>My bow is renewed in my hand.’</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “Men listened to me, waited,</p>

<p>and kept silence for my counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> After my words they didn’t speak again.</p>

<p>My speech fell on them.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They waited for me as for the rain.</p>

<p>Their mouths drank as with the spring rain.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I smiled on them when they had no confidence.</p>

<p>They didn’t reject the light of my face.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I chose out their way, and sat as chief.</p>

<p>I lived as a king in the army,</p>

<p>as one who comforts the mourners.</p>

</body>
</html>