<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Zophar, the Naamathite, answered,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Shouldn’t the multitude of words be answered?</p>

<p>Should a man full of talk be justified?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Should your boastings make men hold their peace?</p>

<p>When you mock, shall no man make you ashamed?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you say, ‘My doctrine is pure.</p>

<p>I am clean in your eyes.’</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But oh that God would speak,</p>

<p>and open his lips against you,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that he would show you the secrets of wisdom!</p>

<p>For true wisdom has two sides.</p>

<p>Know therefore that God exacts of you less than your iniquity deserves.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Can you fathom the mystery of God?</p>

<p>Or can you probe the limits of the Almighty?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are high as heaven. What can you do?</p>

<p>They are deeper than Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> What can you know?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Its measure is longer than the earth,</p>

<p>and broader than the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If he passes by, or confines,</p>

<p>or convenes a court, then who can oppose him?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he knows false men.</p>

<p>He sees iniquity also, even though he doesn’t consider it.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> An empty-headed man becomes wise</p>

<p>when a man is born as a wild donkey’s colt.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “If you set your heart aright,</p>

<p>stretch out your hands toward him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If iniquity is in your hand, put it far away.</p>

<p>Don’t let unrighteousness dwell in your tents.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Surely then you shall lift up your face without spot;</p>

<p>Yes, you shall be steadfast, and shall not fear:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for you shall forget your misery.</p>

<p>You shall remember it like waters that have passed away.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Life shall be clearer than the noonday.</p>

<p>Though there is darkness, it shall be as the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You shall be secure, because there is hope.</p>

<p>Yes, you shall search, and shall take your rest in safety.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also you shall lie down, and no one shall make you afraid.</p>

<p>Yes, many shall court your favor.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the eyes of the wicked shall fail.</p>

<p>They shall have no way to flee.</p>

<p>Their hope shall be the giving up of the spirit.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>