<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “No doubt, but you are the people,</p>

<p>and wisdom shall die with you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But I have understanding as well as you;</p>

<p>I am not inferior to you.</p>

<p>Yes, who doesn’t know such things as these?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I am like one who is a joke to his neighbor,</p>

<p>I, who called on God, and he answered.</p>

<p>The just, the blameless man is a joke.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In the thought of him who is at ease there is contempt for misfortune.</p>

<p>It is ready for them whose foot slips.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The tents of robbers prosper.</p>

<p>Those who provoke God are secure,</p>

<p>who carry their God in their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “But ask the animals, now, and they shall teach you;</p>

<p>the birds of the sky, and they shall tell you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach you.</p>

<p>The fish of the sea shall declare to you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who doesn’t know that in all these,</p>

<p>Yahweh’s hand has done this,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> in whose hand is the life of every living thing,</p>

<p>and the breath of all mankind?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Doesn’t the ear try words,</p>

<p>even as the palate tastes its food?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> With aged men is wisdom,</p>

<p>in length of days understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “With God is wisdom and might.</p>

<p>He has counsel and understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, he breaks down, and it can’t be built again.</p>

<p>He imprisons a man, and there can be no release.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, he withholds the waters, and they dry up.</p>

<p>Again, he sends them out, and they overturn the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With him is strength and wisdom.</p>

<p>The deceived and the deceiver are his.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He leads counselors away stripped.</p>

<p>He makes judges fools.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He loosens the bond of kings.</p>

<p>He binds their waist with a belt.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He leads priests away stripped,</p>

<p>and overthrows the mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He removes the speech of those who are trusted,</p>

<p>and takes away the understanding of the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He pours contempt on princes,</p>

<p>and loosens the belt of the strong.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He uncovers deep things out of darkness,</p>

<p>and brings out to light the shadow of death.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He increases the nations, and he destroys them.</p>

<p>He enlarges the nations, and he leads them captive.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He takes away understanding from the chiefs of the people of the earth,</p>

<p>and causes them to wander in a wilderness where there is no way.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They grope in the dark without light.</p>

<p>He makes them stagger like a drunken man.</p>

</body>
</html>