<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “How long will you torment me,</p>

<p>and crush me with words?</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have reproached me ten times.</p>

<p>You aren’t ashamed that you attack me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If it is true that I have erred,</p>

<p>my error remains with myself.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If indeed you will magnify yourselves against me,</p>

<p>and plead against me my reproach;</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> know now that God has subverted me,</p>

<p>and has surrounded me with his net.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard.</p>

<p>I cry for help, but there is no justice.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He has walled up my way so that I can’t pass,</p>

<p>and has set darkness in my paths.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He has stripped me of my glory,</p>

<p>and taken the crown from my head.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has broken me down on every side, and I am gone.</p>

<p>My hope he has plucked up like a tree.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He has also kindled his wrath against me.</p>

<p>He counts me among his adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His troops come on together,</p>

<p>build a siege ramp against me,</p>

<p>and encamp around my tent.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “He has put my brothers far from me.</p>

<p>My acquaintances are wholly estranged from me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My relatives have gone away.</p>

<p>My familiar friends have forgotten me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Those who dwell in my house and my maids consider me a stranger.</p>

<p>I am an alien in their sight.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I call to my servant, and he gives me no answer.</p>

<p>I beg him with my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My breath is offensive to my wife.</p>

<p>I am loathsome to the children of my own mother.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Even young children despise me.</p>

<p>If I arise, they speak against me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All my familiar friends abhor me.</p>

<p>They whom I loved have turned against me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh.</p>

<p>I have escaped by the skin of my teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “Have pity on me, have pity on me, you my friends;</p>

<p>for the hand of God has touched me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Why do you persecute me as God,</p>

<p>and are not satisfied with my flesh?</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “Oh that my words were now written!</p>

<p>Oh that they were inscribed in a book!</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> That with an iron pen and lead</p>

<p>they were engraved in the rock forever!</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But as for me, I know that my Redeemer lives.</p>

<p>In the end, he will stand upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> After my skin is destroyed,</p>

<p>then in my flesh shall I see God,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whom I, even I, shall see on my side.</p>

<p>My eyes shall see, and not as a stranger.</p>

<p>“My heart is consumed within me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> If you say, ‘How we will persecute him!’</p>

<p>because the root of the matter is found in me,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> be afraid of the sword,</p>

<p>for wrath brings the punishments of the sword,</p>

<p>that you may know there is a judgment.”</p>

</body>
</html>