<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “I have heard many such things.</p>

<p>You are all miserable comforters!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Shall vain words have an end?</p>

<p>Or what provokes you that you answer?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I also could speak as you do.</p>

<p>If your soul were in my soul’s place,</p>

<p>I could join words together against you,</p>

<p>and shake my head at you,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but I would strengthen you with my mouth.</p>

<p>The solace of my lips would relieve you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Though I speak, my grief is not subsided.</p>

<p>Though I forbear, what am I eased?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But now, God, you have surely worn me out.</p>

<p>You have made desolate all my company.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have shriveled me up. This is a witness against me.</p>

<p>My leanness rises up against me.</p>

<p>It testifies to my face.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He has torn me in his wrath, and persecuted me.</p>

<p>He has gnashed on me with his teeth.</p>

<p>My adversary sharpens his eyes on me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have gaped on me with their mouth.</p>

<p>They have struck me on the cheek reproachfully.</p>

<p>They gather themselves together against me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God delivers me to the ungodly,</p>

<p>and casts me into the hands of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I was at ease, and he broke me apart.</p>

<p>Yes, he has taken me by the neck, and dashed me to pieces.</p>

<p>He has also set me up for his target.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His archers surround me.</p>

<p>He splits my kidneys apart, and does not spare.</p>

<p>He pours out my gall on the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He breaks me with breach on breach.</p>

<p>He runs on me like a giant.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have sewed sackcloth on my skin,</p>

<p>and have thrust my horn in the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My face is red with weeping.</p>

<p>Deep darkness is on my eyelids.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Although there is no violence in my hands,</p>

<p>and my prayer is pure.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Earth, don’t cover my blood.</p>

<p>Let my cry have no place to rest.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Even now, behold, my witness is in heaven.</p>

<p>He who vouches for me is on high.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My friends scoff at me.</p>

<p>My eyes pour out tears to God,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that he would maintain the right of a man with God,</p>

<p>of a son of man with his neighbor!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For when a few years have come,</p>

<p>I shall go the way of no return.</p>

</body>
</html>