<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Bildad the Shuhite answered,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “How long will you hunt for words?</p>

<p>Consider, and afterwards we will speak.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Why are we counted as animals,</p>

<p>which have become unclean in your sight?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You who tear yourself in your anger,</p>

<p>shall the earth be forsaken for you?</p>

<p>Or shall the rock be removed out of its place?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Yes, the light of the wicked shall be put out,</p>

<p>The spark of his fire shall not shine.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The light shall be dark in his tent.</p>

<p>His lamp above him shall be put out.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The steps of his strength shall be shortened.</p>

<p>His own counsel shall cast him down.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he is cast into a net by his own feet,</p>

<p>and he wanders into its mesh.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A snare will take him by the heel.</p>

<p>A trap will catch him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A noose is hidden for him in the ground,</p>

<p>a trap for him on the path.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Terrors shall make him afraid on every side,</p>

<p>and shall chase him at his heels.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His strength shall be famished.</p>

<p>Calamity shall be ready at his side.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The members of his body shall be devoured.</p>

<p>The firstborn of death shall devour his members.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He shall be rooted out of the security of his tent.</p>

<p>He shall be brought to the king of terrors.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There shall dwell in his tent that which is none of his.</p>

<p>Sulfur shall be scattered on his habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His roots shall be dried up beneath.</p>

<p>Above shall his branch be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His memory shall perish from the earth.</p>

<p>He shall have no name in the street.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He shall be driven from light into darkness,</p>

<p>and chased out of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall have neither son nor grandson among his people,</p>

<p>nor any remaining where he lived.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Those who come after shall be astonished at his day,</p>

<p>as those who went before were frightened.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Surely such are the dwellings of the unrighteous.</p>

<p>This is the place of him who doesn’t know God.”</p>

</body>
</html>