<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Elihu answered,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Do you think this to be your right,</p>

<p>or do you say, ‘My righteousness is more than God’s,’</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> That you ask, ‘What advantage will it be to you?</p>

<p>What profit shall I have, more than if I had sinned?’</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will answer you,</p>

<p>and your companions with you.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Look to the heavens, and see.</p>

<p>See the skies, which are higher than you.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If you have sinned, what effect do you have against him?</p>

<p>If your transgressions are multiplied, what do you do to him?</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If you are righteous, what do you give him?</p>

<p>Or what does he receive from your hand?</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Your wickedness may hurt a man as you are,</p>

<p>and your righteousness may profit a son of man.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “By reason of the multitude of oppressions they cry out.</p>

<p>They cry for help by reason of the arm of the mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But no one says, ‘Where is God my Maker,</p>

<p>who gives songs in the night,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> who teaches us more than the animals of the earth,</p>

<p>and makes us wiser than the birds of the sky?’</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There they cry, but no one gives answer,</p>

<p>because of the pride of evil men.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely God will not hear an empty cry,</p>

<p>neither will the Almighty regard it.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How much less when you say you don’t see him.</p>

<p>The cause is before him, and you wait for him!</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But now, because he has not visited in his anger,</p>

<p>neither does he greatly regard arrogance.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore Job opens his mouth with empty talk,</p>

<p>and he multiplies words without knowledge.”</p>

</body>
</html>