<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Even today my complaint is rebellious.</p>

<p>His hand is heavy in spite of my groaning.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Oh that I knew where I might find him!</p>

<p>That I might come even to his seat!</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I would set my cause in order before him,</p>

<p>and fill my mouth with arguments.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I would know the words which he would answer me,</p>

<p>and understand what he would tell me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Would he contend with me in the greatness of his power?</p>

<p>No, but he would listen to me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There the upright might reason with him,</p>

<p>so I should be delivered forever from my judge.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “If I go east, he is not there;</p>

<p>if west, I can’t find him;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He works to the north, but I can’t see him.</p>

<p>He turns south, but I can’t catch a glimpse of him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But he knows the way that I take.</p>

<p>When he has tried me, I shall come out like gold.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My foot has held fast to his steps.</p>

<p>I have kept his way, and not turned aside.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I haven’t gone back from the commandment of his lips.</p>

<p>I have treasured up the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he stands alone, and who can oppose him?</p>

<p>What his soul desires, even that he does.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he performs that which is appointed for me.</p>

<p>Many such things are with him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore I am terrified at his presence.</p>

<p>When I consider, I am afraid of him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For God has made my heart faint.</p>

<p>The Almighty has terrified me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because I was not cut off before the darkness,</p>

<p>neither did he cover the thick darkness from my face.</p>

</body>
</html>