<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 56</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 56</h2>

<p><a id="c56_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be merciful to me, God, for man wants to swallow me up.</p>

<p>All day long, he attacks and oppresses me.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My enemies want to swallow me up all day long,</p>

<p>for they are many who fight proudly against me.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When I am afraid,</p>

<p>I will put my trust in you.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In God, I praise his word.</p>

<p>In God, I put my trust.</p>

<p>I will not be afraid.</p>

<p>What can flesh do to me?</p>

<p><a id="c56_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All day long they twist my words.</p>

<p>All their thoughts are against me for evil.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They conspire and lurk,</p>

<p>watching my steps, they are eager to take my life.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Shall they escape by iniquity?</p>

<p>In anger cast down the peoples, God.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You count my wanderings.</p>

<p>You put my tears into your bottle.</p>

<p>Aren’t they in your book?</p>

<p><a id="c56_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then my enemies shall turn back in the day that I call.</p>

<p>I know this, that God is for me.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In God, I will praise his word.</p>

<p>In Yahweh, I will praise his word.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have put my trust in God.</p>

<p>I will not be afraid.</p>

<p>What can man do to me?</p>

<p><a id="c56_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Your vows are on me, God.</p>

<p>I will give thank offerings to you.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you have delivered my soul from death,</p>

<p>and prevented my feet from falling,</p>

<p>that I may walk before God in the light of the living.</p>

</body>
</html>