<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I said, “I will watch my ways, so that I don’t sin with my tongue.</p>

<p>I will keep my mouth with a bridle while the wicked is before me.”</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I was mute with silence.</p>

<p>I held my peace, even from good.</p>

<p>My sorrow was stirred.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My heart was hot within me.</p>

<p>While I meditated, the fire burned.</p>

<p>I spoke with my tongue:</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Yahweh, show me my end,</p>

<p>what is the measure of my days.</p>

<p>Let me know how frail I am.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, you have made my days hand widths.</p>

<p>My lifetime is as nothing before you.</p>

<p>Surely every man stands as a breath.” Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Surely every man walks like a shadow.</p>

<p>Surely they busy themselves in vain.</p>

<p>He heaps up, and doesn’t know who shall gather.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now, Lord, what do I wait for?</p>

<p>My hope is in you.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Deliver me from all my transgressions.</p>

<p>Don’t make me the reproach of the foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I was mute.</p>

<p>I didn’t open my mouth,</p>

<p>because you did it.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Remove your scourge away from me.</p>

<p>I am overcome by the blow of your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When you rebuke and correct man for iniquity,</p>

<p>You consume his wealth like a moth.</p>

<p>Surely every man is but a breath.” Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Hear my prayer, Yahweh, and give ear to my cry.</p>

<p>Don’t be silent at my tears.</p>

<p>For I am a stranger with you,</p>

<p>a foreigner, as all my fathers were.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Oh spare me, that I may recover strength,</p>

<p>before I go away, and exist no more.”</p>

</body>
</html>