<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 91</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 91</h2>

<p><a id="c91_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High</p>

<p>will rest in the shadow of the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will say of Yahweh, “He is my refuge and my fortress;</p>

<p>my God, in whom I trust.”</p>

<p><a id="c91_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler,</p>

<p>and from the deadly pestilence.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will cover you with his feathers.</p>

<p>Under his wings you will take refuge.</p>

<p>His faithfulness is your shield and rampart.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You shall not be afraid of the terror by night,</p>

<p>nor of the arrow that flies by day;</p>

<p><a id="c91_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness,</p>

<p>nor of the destruction that wastes at noonday.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A thousand may fall at your side,</p>

<p>and ten thousand at your right hand;</p>

<p>but it will not come near you.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You will only look with your eyes,</p>

<p>and see the recompense of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because you have made Yahweh your refuge,</p>

<p>and the Most High your dwelling place,</p>

<p><a id="c91_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> no evil shall happen to you,</p>

<p>neither shall any plague come near your dwelling.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he will put his angels in charge of you,</p>

<p>to guard you in all your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They will bear you up in their hands,</p>

<p>so that you won’t dash your foot against a stone.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You will tread on the lion and cobra.</p>

<p>You will trample the young lion and the serpent underfoot.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Because he has set his love on me, therefore I will deliver him.</p>

<p>I will set him on high, because he has known my name.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He will call on me, and I will answer him.</p>

<p>I will be with him in trouble.</p>

<p>I will deliver him, and honor him.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will satisfy him with long life,</p>

<p>and show him my salvation.”</p>

</body>
</html>