<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 147</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 147</h2>

<p><a id="c147_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise Yah,</p>

<p>for it is good to sing praises to our God;</p>

<p>for it is pleasant and fitting to praise him.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh builds up Jerusalem.</p>

<p>He gathers together the outcasts of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He heals the broken in heart,</p>

<p>and binds up their wounds.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He counts the number of the stars.</p>

<p>He calls them all by their names.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Great is our Lord, and mighty in power.</p>

<p>His understanding is infinite.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh upholds the humble.</p>

<p>He brings the wicked down to the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Sing to Yahweh with thanksgiving.</p>

<p>Sing praises on the harp to our God,</p>

<p><a id="c147_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> who covers the sky with clouds,</p>

<p>who prepares rain for the earth,</p>

<p>who makes grass grow on the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He provides food for the livestock,</p>

<p>and for the young ravens when they call.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He doesn’t delight in the strength of the horse.</p>

<p>He takes no pleasure in the legs of a man.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh takes pleasure in those who fear him,</p>

<p>in those who hope in his loving kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Praise Yahweh, Jerusalem!</p>

<p>Praise your God, Zion!</p>

<p><a id="c147_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For he has strengthened the bars of your gates.</p>

<p>He has blessed your children within you.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He makes peace in your borders.</p>

<p>He fills you with the finest of the wheat.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He sends out his commandment to the earth.</p>

<p>His word runs very swiftly.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He gives snow like wool,</p>

<p>and scatters frost like ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He hurls down his hail like pebbles.</p>

<p>Who can stand before his cold?</p>

<p><a id="c147_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He sends out his word, and melts them.</p>

<p>He causes his wind to blow, and the waters flow.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shows his word to Jacob;</p>

<p>his statutes and his ordinances to Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He has not done this for just any nation.</p>

<p>They don’t know his ordinances.</p>

<p>Praise Yah!</p>

</body>
</html>