<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 71</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 71</h2>

<p><a id="c71_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In you, Yahweh, I take refuge.</p>

<p>Never let me be disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Deliver me in your righteousness, and rescue me.</p>

<p>Turn your ear to me, and save me.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be to me a rock of refuge to which I may always go.</p>

<p>Give the command to save me,</p>

<p>for you are my rock and my fortress.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rescue me, my God, from the hand of the wicked,</p>

<p>from the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For you are my hope, Lord Yahweh;</p>

<p>my confidence from my youth.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have relied on you from the womb.</p>

<p>You are he who took me out of my mother’s womb.</p>

<p>I will always praise you.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I am a marvel to many,</p>

<p>but you are my strong refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My mouth shall be filled with your praise,</p>

<p>with your honor all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Don’t reject me in my old age.</p>

<p>Don’t forsake me when my strength fails.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For my enemies talk about me.</p>

<p>Those who watch for my soul conspire together,</p>

<p><a id="c71_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> saying, “God has forsaken him.</p>

<p>Pursue and take him, for no one will rescue him.”</p>

<p><a id="c71_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> God, don’t be far from me.</p>

<p>My God, hurry to help me.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let my accusers be disappointed and consumed.</p>

<p>Let them be covered with disgrace and scorn who want to harm me.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I will always hope,</p>

<p>and will add to all of your praise.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My mouth will tell about your righteousness,</p>

<p>and of your salvation all day,</p>

<p>though I don’t know its full measure.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will come with the mighty acts of the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p>I will make mention of your righteousness, even of yours alone.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> God, you have taught me from my youth.</p>

<p>Until now, I have declared your wondrous works.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yes, even when I am old and gray-haired, God, don’t forsake me,</p>

<p>until I have declared your strength to the next generation,</p>

<p>your might to everyone who is to come.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Your righteousness also, God, reaches to the heavens;</p>

<p>you have done great things.</p>

<p>God, who is like you?</p>

<p><a id="c71_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You, who have shown us many and bitter troubles,</p>

<p>you will let me live.</p>

<p>You will bring us up again from the depths of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Increase my honor,</p>

<p>and comfort me again.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, my God.</p>

<p>I sing praises to you with the lyre, Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> My lips shall shout for joy!</p>

<p>My soul, which you have redeemed, sings praises to you!</p>

<p><a id="c71_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My tongue will also talk about your righteousness all day long,</p>

<p>for they are disappointed, and they are confounded,</p>

<p>who want to harm me.</p>

</body>
</html>