<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 104</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 104</h2>

<p><a id="c104_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bless Yahweh, my soul.</p>

<p>Yahweh, my God, you are very great.</p>

<p>You are clothed with honor and majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He covers himself with light as with a garment.</p>

<p>He stretches out the heavens like a curtain.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He lays the beams of his rooms in the waters.</p>

<p>He makes the clouds his chariot.</p>

<p>He walks on the wings of the wind.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He makes his messengers<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> winds;</p>

<p>his servants flames of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He laid the foundations of the earth,</p>

<p>that it should not be moved forever.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You covered it with the deep as with a cloak.</p>

<p>The waters stood above the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> At your rebuke they fled.</p>

<p>At the voice of your thunder they hurried away.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The mountains rose,</p>

<p>the valleys sank down,</p>

<p>to the place which you had assigned to them.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have set a boundary that they may not pass over;</p>

<p>that they don’t turn again to cover the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He sends springs into the valleys.</p>

<p>They run among the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They give drink to every animal of the field.</p>

<p>The wild donkeys quench their thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The birds of the sky nest by them.</p>

<p>They sing among the branches.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He waters the mountains from his rooms.</p>

<p>The earth is filled with the fruit of your works.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He causes the grass to grow for the livestock,</p>

<p>and plants for man to cultivate,</p>

<p>that he may produce food out of the earth:</p>

<p><a id="c104_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> wine that makes glad the heart of man,</p>

<p>oil to make his face to shine,</p>

<p>and bread that strengthens man’s heart.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh’s trees are well watered,</p>

<p>the cedars of Lebanon, which he has planted;</p>

<p><a id="c104_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> where the birds make their nests.</p>

<p>The stork makes its home in the cypress trees.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The high mountains are for the wild goats.</p>

<p>The rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He appointed the moon for seasons.</p>

<p>The sun knows when to set.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You make darkness, and it is night,</p>

<p>in which all the animals of the forest prowl.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The young lions roar after their prey,</p>

<p>and seek their food from God.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sun rises, and they steal away,</p>

<p>and lay down in their dens.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Man goes out to his work,</p>

<p>to his labor until the evening.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yahweh, how many are your works!</p>

<p>In wisdom have you made them all.</p>

<p>The earth is full of your riches.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> There is the sea, great and wide,</p>

<p>in which are innumerable living things,</p>

<p>both small and large animals.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There the ships go,</p>

<p>and leviathan, whom you formed to play there.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These all wait for you,</p>

<p>that you may give them their food in due season.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You give to them; they gather.</p>

<p>You open your hand; they are satisfied with good.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> You hide your face: they are troubled;</p>

<p>you take away their breath: they die, and return to the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> You send out your Spirit and they are created.</p>

<p>You renew the face of the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let Yahweh’s glory endure forever.</p>

<p>Let Yahweh rejoice in his works.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He looks at the earth, and it trembles.</p>

<p>He touches the mountains, and they smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I will sing to Yahweh as long as I live.</p>

<p>I will sing praise to my God while I have any being.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let my meditation be sweet to him.</p>

<p>I will rejoice in Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Let sinners be consumed out of the earth.</p>

<p>Let the wicked be no more.</p>

<p>Bless Yahweh, my soul.</p>

<p>Praise Yah!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, angels</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>