<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 92</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 92</h2>

<p><a id="c92_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> It is a good thing to give thanks to Yahweh,</p>

<p>to sing praises to your name, Most High;</p>

<p><a id="c92_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to proclaim your loving kindness in the morning,</p>

<p>and your faithfulness every night,</p>

<p><a id="c92_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> with the ten-stringed lute, with the harp,</p>

<p>and with the melody of the lyre.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you, Yahweh, have made me glad through your work.</p>

<p>I will triumph in the works of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How great are your works, Yahweh!</p>

<p>Your thoughts are very deep.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A senseless man doesn’t know,</p>

<p>neither does a fool understand this:</p>

<p><a id="c92_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> though the wicked spring up as the grass,</p>

<p>and all the evildoers flourish,</p>

<p>they will be destroyed forever.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But you, Yahweh, are on high forever more.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, behold, your enemies, Yahweh,</p>

<p>for, behold, your enemies shall perish.</p>

<p>All the evildoers will be scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox.</p>

<p>I am anointed with fresh oil.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My eye has also seen my enemies.</p>

<p>My ears have heard of the wicked enemies who rise up against me.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree.</p>

<p>He will grow like a cedar in Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They are planted in Yahweh’s house.</p>

<p>They will flourish in our God’s courts.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They will still produce fruit in old age.</p>

<p>They will be full of sap and green,</p>

<p><a id="c92_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> to show that Yahweh is upright.</p>

<p>He is my rock,</p>

<p>and there is no unrighteousness in him.</p>

</body>
</html>