<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Preserve me, God, for in you do I take refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul, you have said to Yahweh, “You are my Lord.</p>

<p>Apart from you I have no good thing.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As for the saints who are in the earth,</p>

<p>they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their sorrows shall be multiplied who give gifts to another god.</p>

<p>Their drink offerings of blood I will not offer,</p>

<p>nor take their names on my lips.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yahweh assigned my portion and my cup.</p>

<p>You made my lot secure.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places.</p>

<p>Yes, I have a good inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will bless Yahweh, who has given me counsel.</p>

<p>Yes, my heart instructs me in the night seasons.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have set Yahweh always before me.</p>

<p>Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoices.</p>

<p>My body shall also dwell in safety.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For you will not leave my soul in Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>neither will you allow your holy one to see corruption.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You will show me the path of life.</p>

<p>In your presence is fullness of joy.</p>

<p>In your right hand there are pleasures forever more.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>