<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 143</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 143</h2>

<p><a id="c143_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear my prayer, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Listen to my petitions.</p>

<p>In your faithfulness and righteousness, relieve me.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Don’t enter into judgment with your servant,</p>

<p>for in your sight no man living is righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the enemy pursues my soul.</p>

<p>He has struck my life down to the ground.</p>

<p>He has made me live in dark places, as those who have been long dead.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed within me.</p>

<p>My heart within me is desolate.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I remember the days of old.</p>

<p>I meditate on all your doings.</p>

<p>I contemplate the work of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I spread out my hands to you.</p>

<p>My soul thirsts for you, like a parched land. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hurry to answer me, Yahweh.</p>

<p>My spirit fails.</p>

<p>Don’t hide your face from me,</p>

<p>so that I don’t become like those who go down into the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cause me to hear your loving kindness in the morning,</p>

<p>for I trust in you.</p>

<p>Cause me to know the way in which I should walk,</p>

<p>for I lift up my soul to you.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Deliver me, Yahweh, from my enemies.</p>

<p>I flee to you to hide me.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Teach me to do your will,</p>

<p>for you are my God.</p>

<p>Your Spirit is good.</p>

<p>Lead me in the land of uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Revive me, Yahweh, for your name’s sake.</p>

<p>In your righteousness, bring my soul out of trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In your loving kindness, cut off my enemies,</p>

<p>and destroy all those who afflict my soul,</p>

<p>For I am your servant.</p>

</body>
</html>