<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ear to my words, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Consider my meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Listen to the voice of my cry, my King and my God;</p>

<p>for to you do I pray.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh, in the morning you shall hear my voice.</p>

<p>In the morning I will lay my requests before you, and will watch expectantly.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you are not a God who has pleasure in wickedness.</p>

<p>Evil can’t live with you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The arrogant shall not stand in your sight.</p>

<p>You hate all workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You will destroy those who speak lies.</p>

<p>Yahweh abhors the bloodthirsty and deceitful man.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But as for me, in the abundance of your loving kindness I will come into your house.</p>

<p>I will bow toward your holy temple in reverence of you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lead me, Yahweh, in your righteousness because of my enemies.</p>

<p>Make your way straight before my face.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For there is no faithfulness in their mouth.</p>

<p>Their heart is destruction.</p>

<p>Their throat is an open tomb.</p>

<p>They flatter with their tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hold them guilty, God.</p>

<p>Let them fall by their own counsels;</p>

<p>Thrust them out in the multitude of their transgressions,</p>

<p>for they have rebelled against you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But let all those who take refuge in you rejoice,</p>

<p>Let them always shout for joy, because you defend them.</p>

<p>Let them also who love your name be joyful in you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For you will bless the righteous.</p>

<p>Yahweh, you will surround him with favor as with a shield.</p>

</body>
</html>