<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh, my God, I take refuge in you.</p>

<p>Save me from all those who pursue me, and deliver me,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> lest they tear apart my soul like a lion,</p>

<p>ripping it in pieces, while there is no one to deliver.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh, my God, if I have done this,</p>

<p>if there is iniquity in my hands,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> if I have rewarded evil to him who was at peace with me</p>

<p>(yes, if I have delivered him who without cause was my adversary),</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it;</p>

<p>yes, let him tread my life down to the earth,</p>

<p>and lay my glory in the dust. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Arise, Yahweh, in your anger.</p>

<p>Lift up yourself against the rage of my adversaries.</p>

<p>Awake for me. You have commanded judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let the congregation of the peoples surround you.</p>

<p>Rule over them on high.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh administers judgment to the peoples.</p>

<p>Judge me, Yahweh, according to my righteousness,</p>

<p>and to my integrity that is in me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end,</p>

<p>but establish the righteous;</p>

<p>their minds and hearts are searched by the righteous God.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My shield is with God,</p>

<p>who saves the upright in heart.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God is a righteous judge,</p>

<p>yes, a God who has indignation every day.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If a man doesn’t relent, he will sharpen his sword;</p>

<p>he has bent and strung his bow.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He has also prepared for himself the instruments of death.</p>

<p>He makes ready his flaming arrows.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> he travails with iniquity.</p>

<p>Yes, he has conceived mischief,</p>

<p>and brought out falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He has dug a hole,</p>

<p>and has fallen into the pit which he made.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The trouble he causes shall return to his own head.</p>

<p>His violence shall come down on the crown of his own head.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will give thanks to Yahweh according to his righteousness,</p>

<p>and will sing praise to the name of Yahweh Most High.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>