<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 148</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 148</h2>

<p><a id="c148_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise Yah!</p>

<p>Praise Yahweh from the heavens!</p>

<p>Praise him in the heights!</p>

<p><a id="c148_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Praise him, all his angels!</p>

<p>Praise him, all his army!</p>

<p><a id="c148_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise him, sun and moon!</p>

<p>Praise him, all you shining stars!</p>

<p><a id="c148_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Praise him, you heavens of heavens,</p>

<p>You waters that are above the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let them praise Yahweh’s name,</p>

<p>For he commanded, and they were created.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He has also established them forever and ever.</p>

<p>He has made a decree which will not pass away.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Praise Yahweh from the earth,</p>

<p>you great sea creatures, and all depths;</p>

<p><a id="c148_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> lightning and hail, snow and clouds;</p>

<p>stormy wind, fulfilling his word;</p>

<p><a id="c148_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> mountains and all hills;</p>

<p>fruit trees and all cedars;</p>

<p><a id="c148_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> wild animals and all livestock;</p>

<p>small creatures and flying birds;</p>

<p><a id="c148_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> kings of the earth and all peoples;</p>

<p>princes and all judges of the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c148_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> both young men and maidens;</p>

<p>old men and children:</p>

<p><a id="c148_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> let them praise Yahweh’s name,</p>

<p>for his name alone is exalted.</p>

<p>His glory is above the earth and the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He has lifted up the horn of his people,</p>

<p>the praise of all his saints;</p>

<p>even of the children of Israel, a people near to him.</p>

<p>Praise Yah!</p>

</body>
</html>