<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> <a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> I will bless Yahweh at all times.</p>

<p>His praise will always be in my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul shall boast in Yahweh.</p>

<p>The humble shall hear of it, and be glad.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Oh magnify Yahweh with me.</p>

<p>Let us exalt his name together.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I sought Yahweh, and he answered me,</p>

<p>and delivered me from all my fears.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They looked to him, and were radiant.</p>

<p>Their faces shall never be covered with shame.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This poor man cried, and Yahweh heard him,</p>

<p>and saved him out of all his troubles.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh’s angel encamps around those who fear him,</p>

<p>and delivers them.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Oh taste and see that Yahweh is good.</p>

<p>Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Oh fear Yahweh, you his saints,</p>

<p>for there is no lack with those who fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger,</p>

<p>but those who seek Yahweh shall not lack any good thing.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Come, you children, listen to me.</p>

<p>I will teach you the fear of Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who is someone who desires life,</p>

<p>and loves many days, that he may see good?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Keep your tongue from evil,</p>

<p>and your lips from speaking lies.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Depart from evil, and do good.</p>

<p>seek peace, and pursue it.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yahweh’s eyes are toward the righteous.</p>

<p>His ears listen to their cry.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh’s face is against those who do evil,</p>

<p>to cut off their memory from the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The righteous cry, and Yahweh hears,</p>

<p>and delivers them out of all their troubles.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yahweh is near to those who have a broken heart,</p>

<p>and saves those who have a crushed spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Many are the afflictions of the righteous,</p>

<p>but Yahweh delivers him out of them all.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He protects all of his bones.</p>

<p>Not one of them is broken.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Evil shall kill the wicked.</p>

<p>Those who hate the righteous shall be condemned.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yahweh redeems the soul of his servants.</p>

<p>None of those who take refuge in him shall be condemned.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Psalm 34 is an acrostic poem, with each verse starting with a letter of the alphabet (ordered from Alef to Tav).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>