<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 81</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 81</h2>

<p><a id="c81_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Sing aloud to God, our strength!</p>

<p>Make a joyful shout to the God of Jacob!</p>

<p><a id="c81_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Raise a song, and bring here the tambourine,</p>

<p>the pleasant lyre with the harp.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blow the trumpet at the New Moon,</p>

<p>at the full moon, on our feast day.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For it is a statute for Israel,</p>

<p>an ordinance of the God of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He appointed it in Joseph for a testimony,</p>

<p>when he went out over the land of Egypt,</p>

<p>I heard a language that I didn’t know.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “I removed his shoulder from the burden.</p>

<p>His hands were freed from the basket.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You called in trouble, and I delivered you.</p>

<p>I answered you in the secret place of thunder.</p>

<p>I tested you at the waters of Meribah.” Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Hear, my people, and I will testify to you,</p>

<p>Israel, if you would listen to me!</p>

<p><a id="c81_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There shall be no strange god in you,</p>

<p>neither shall you worship any foreign god.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I am Yahweh, your God,</p>

<p>who brought you up out of the land of Egypt.</p>

<p>Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But my people didn’t listen to my voice.</p>

<p>Israel desired none of me.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So I let them go after the stubbornness of their hearts,</p>

<p>that they might walk in their own counsels.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Oh that my people would listen to me,</p>

<p>that Israel would walk in my ways!</p>

<p><a id="c81_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I would soon subdue their enemies,</p>

<p>and turn my hand against their adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The haters of Yahweh would cringe before him,</p>

<p>and their punishment would last forever.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But he would have also fed them with the finest of the wheat.</p>

<p>I will satisfy you with honey out of the rock.”</p>

</body>
</html>