<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Rejoice in Yahweh, you righteous!</p>

<p>Praise is fitting for the upright.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Give thanks to Yahweh with the lyre.</p>

<p>Sing praises to him with the harp of ten strings.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sing to him a new song.</p>

<p>Play skillfully with a shout of joy!</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Yahweh’s word is right.</p>

<p>All his work is done in faithfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He loves righteousness and justice.</p>

<p>The earth is full of the loving kindness of Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By Yahweh’s word, the heavens were made;</p>

<p>all their army by the breath of his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap.</p>

<p>He lays up the deeps in storehouses.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let all the earth fear Yahweh.</p>

<p>Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he spoke, and it was done.</p>

<p>He commanded, and it stood firm.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yahweh brings the counsel of the nations to nothing.</p>

<p>He makes the thoughts of the peoples to be of no effect.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The counsel of Yahweh stands fast forever,</p>

<p>the thoughts of his heart to all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the nation whose God is Yahweh,</p>

<p>the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yahweh looks from heaven.</p>

<p>He sees all the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From the place of his habitation he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> he who fashions all of their hearts;</p>

<p>and he considers all of their works.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There is no king saved by the multitude of an army.</p>

<p>A mighty man is not delivered by great strength.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A horse is a vain thing for safety,</p>

<p>neither does he deliver any by his great power.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, Yahweh’s eye is on those who fear him,</p>

<p>on those who hope in his loving kindness;</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> to deliver their soul from death,</p>

<p>to keep them alive in famine.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Our soul has waited for Yahweh.</p>

<p>He is our help and our shield.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For our heart rejoices in him,</p>

<p>because we have trusted in his holy name.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let your loving kindness be on us, Yahweh,</p>

<p>since we have hoped in you.</p>

</body>
</html>