<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 116</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 116</h2>

<p><a id="c116_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I love Yahweh, because he listens to my voice,</p>

<p>and my cries for mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Because he has turned his ear to me,</p>

<p>therefore I will call on him as long as I live.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The cords of death surrounded me,</p>

<p>the pains of Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> got a hold of me.</p>

<p>I found trouble and sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then I called on Yahweh’s name:</p>

<p>“Yahweh, I beg you, deliver my soul.”</p>

<p><a id="c116_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yahweh is Gracious and righteous.</p>

<p>Yes, our God is merciful.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh preserves the simple.</p>

<p>I was brought low, and he saved me.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Return to your rest, my soul,</p>

<p>for Yahweh has dealt bountifully with you.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For you have delivered my soul from death,</p>

<p>my eyes from tears,</p>

<p>and my feet from falling.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will walk before Yahweh in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I believed, therefore I said,</p>

<p>“I was greatly afflicted.”</p>

<p><a id="c116_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I said in my haste,</p>

<p>“All men are liars.”</p>

<p><a id="c116_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What will I give to Yahweh for all his benefits toward me?</p>

<p><a id="c116_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will take the cup of salvation, and call on Yahweh’s name.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will pay my vows to Yahweh,</p>

<p>yes, in the presence of all his people.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Precious in Yahweh’s sight is the death of his saints.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh, truly I am your servant.</p>

<p>I am your servant, the son of your servant.</p>

<p>You have freed me from my chains.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving,</p>

<p>and will call on Yahweh’s name.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will pay my vows to Yahweh,</p>

<p>yes, in the presence of all his people,</p>

<p><a id="c116_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> in the courts of Yahweh’s house,</p>

<p>in the middle of you, Jerusalem.</p>

<p>Praise Yah!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>