<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 72</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 72</h2>

<p><a id="c72_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God, give the king your justice;</p>

<p>your righteousness to the royal son.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He will judge your people with righteousness,</p>

<p>and your poor with justice.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The mountains shall bring prosperity to the people.</p>

<p>The hills bring the fruit of righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will judge the poor of the people.</p>

<p>He will save the children of the needy,</p>

<p>and will break the oppressor in pieces.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They shall fear you while the sun endures;</p>

<p>and as long as the moon, throughout all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He will come down like rain on the mown grass,</p>

<p>as showers that water the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In his days, the righteous shall flourish,</p>

<p>and abundance of peace, until the moon is no more.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He shall have dominion also from sea to sea,</p>

<p>from the River to the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him.</p>

<p>His enemies shall lick the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The kings of Tarshish and of the islands will bring tribute.</p>

<p>The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yes, all kings shall fall down before him.</p>

<p>All nations shall serve him.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For he will deliver the needy when he cries;</p>

<p>the poor, who has no helper.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will have pity on the poor and needy.</p>

<p>He will save the souls of the needy.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence.</p>

<p>Their blood will be precious in his sight.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba.</p>

<p>Men shall pray for him continually.</p>

<p>They shall bless him all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Abundance of grain shall be throughout the land.</p>

<p>Its fruit sways like Lebanon.</p>

<p>Let it flourish, thriving like the grass of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His name endures forever.</p>

<p>His name continues as long as the sun.</p>

<p>Men shall be blessed by him.</p>

<p>All nations will call him blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Praise be to Yahweh God, the God of Israel,</p>

<p>who alone does marvelous deeds.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Blessed be his glorious name forever!</p>

<p>Let the whole earth be filled with his glory!</p>

<p>Amen and amen.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This ends the prayers by David, the son of Jesse.</p>

</body>
</html>