<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh, don’t rebuke me in your wrath,</p>

<p>neither chasten me in your hot displeasure.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For your arrows have pierced me,</p>

<p>your hand presses hard on me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation,</p>

<p>neither is there any health in my bones because of my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For my iniquities have gone over my head.</p>

<p>As a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My wounds are loathsome and corrupt,</p>

<p>because of my foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I am pained and bowed down greatly.</p>

<p>I go mourning all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For my waist is filled with burning.</p>

<p>There is no soundness in my flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I am faint and severely bruised.</p>

<p>I have groaned by reason of the anguish of my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lord, all my desire is before you.</p>

<p>My groaning is not hidden from you.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My heart throbs.</p>

<p>My strength fails me.</p>

<p>As for the light of my eyes, it has also left me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my plague.</p>

<p>My kinsmen stand far away.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They also who seek after my life lay snares.</p>

<p>Those who seek my hurt speak mischievous things,</p>

<p>and meditate deceits all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But I, as a deaf man, don’t hear.</p>

<p>I am as a mute man who doesn’t open his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yes, I am as a man who doesn’t hear,</p>

<p>in whose mouth are no reproofs.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For in you, Yahweh, do I hope.</p>

<p>You will answer, Lord my God.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I said, “Don’t let them gloat over me,</p>

<p>or exalt themselves over me when my foot slips.”</p>

<p><a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I am ready to fall.</p>

<p>My pain is continually before me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I will declare my iniquity.</p>

<p>I will be sorry for my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But my enemies are vigorous and many.</p>

<p>Those who hate me without reason are numerous.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They who also render evil for good are adversaries to me,</p>

<p>because I follow what is good.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Don’t forsake me, Yahweh.</p>

<p>My God, don’t be far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hurry to help me,</p>

<p>Lord, my salvation.</p>

</body>
</html>