<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> As the deer pants for the water brooks,</p>

<p>so my soul pants after you, God.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul thirsts for God, for the living God.</p>

<p>When shall I come and appear before God?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My tears have been my food day and night,</p>

<p>while they continually ask me, “Where is your God?”</p>

<p><a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These things I remember, and pour out my soul within me,</p>

<p>how I used to go with the crowd, and led them to God’s house,</p>

<p>with the voice of joy and praise, a multitude keeping a holy day.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why are you in despair, my soul?</p>

<p>Why are you disturbed within me?</p>

<p>Hope in God!</p>

<p>For I shall still praise him for the saving help of his presence.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My God, my soul is in despair within me.</p>

<p>Therefore I remember you from the land of the Jordan,</p>

<p>the heights of Hermon, from the hill Mizar.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Deep calls to deep at the noise of your waterfalls.</p>

<p>All your waves and your billows have swept over me.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> will command his loving kindness in the daytime.</p>

<p>In the night his song shall be with me:</p>

<p>a prayer to the God of my life.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will ask God, my rock, “Why have you forgotten me?</p>

<p>Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?”</p>

<p><a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As with a sword in my bones, my adversaries reproach me,</p>

<p>while they continually ask me, “Where is your God?”</p>

<p><a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why are you in despair, my soul?</p>

<p>Why are you disturbed within me?</p>

<p>Hope in God! For I shall still praise him,</p>

<p>the saving help of my countenance, and my God.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>