<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why do the nations rage,</p>

<p>and the peoples plot a vain thing?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The kings of the earth take a stand,</p>

<p>and the rulers take counsel together,</p>

<p>against Yahweh, and against his Anointed,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> saying,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Let’s break their bonds apart,</p>

<p>and cast their cords from us.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He who sits in the heavens will laugh.</p>

<p>The Lord<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> will have them in derision.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then he will speak to them in his anger,</p>

<p>and terrify them in his wrath:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Yet I have set my King on my holy hill of Zion.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will tell of the decree.</p>

<p>Yahweh said to me, “You are my son.</p>

<p>Today I have become your father.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ask of me, and I will give the nations for your inheritance,</p>

<p>the uttermost parts of the earth for your possession.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You shall break them with a rod of iron.</p>

<p>You shall dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now therefore be wise, you kings.</p>

<p>Be instructed, you judges of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Serve Yahweh with fear,</p>

<p>and rejoice with trembling.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Give sincere homage to the Son,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> lest he be angry, and you perish on the way,</p>

<p>for his wrath will soon be kindled.</p>

<p>Blessed are all those who take refuge in him.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word “Anointed” is the same as the word for “Messiah” or “Christ”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, Kiss the son</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>