<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 60</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 60</h2>

<p><a id="c60_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God, you have rejected us.</p>

<p>You have broken us down.</p>

<p>You have been angry.</p>

<p>Restore us, again.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You have made the land tremble.</p>

<p>You have torn it.</p>

<p>Mend its fractures,</p>

<p>for it quakes.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have shown your people hard things.</p>

<p>You have made us drink the wine that makes us stagger.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You have given a banner to those who fear you,</p>

<p>that it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So that your beloved may be delivered,</p>

<p>save with your right hand, and answer us.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God has spoken from his sanctuary:</p>

<p>“I will triumph.</p>

<p>I will divide Shechem,</p>

<p>and measure out the valley of Succoth.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine.</p>

<p>Ephraim also is the defense of my head.</p>

<p>Judah is my scepter.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Moab is my wash basin.</p>

<p>I will throw my shoe on Edom.</p>

<p>I shout in triumph over Philistia.”</p>

<p><a id="c60_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who will bring me into the strong city?</p>

<p>Who has led me to Edom?</p>

<p><a id="c60_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Haven’t you, God, rejected us?</p>

<p>You don’t go out with our armies, God.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Give us help against the adversary,</p>

<p>for the help of man is vain.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Through God we shall do valiantly,</p>

<p>for it is he who will tread down our adversaries.</p>

</body>
</html>