<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 68</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 68</h2>

<p><a id="c68_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let God arise!</p>

<p>Let his enemies be scattered!</p>

<p>Let them who hate him also flee before him.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As smoke is driven away,</p>

<p>so drive them away.</p>

<p>As wax melts before the fire,</p>

<p>so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But let the righteous be glad.</p>

<p>Let them rejoice before God.</p>

<p>Yes, let them rejoice with gladness.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sing to God! Sing praises to his name!</p>

<p>Extol him who rides on the clouds:</p>

<p>to Yah, his name!</p>

<p>Rejoice before him!</p>

<p><a id="c68_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A father of the fatherless, and a defender of the widows,</p>

<p>is God in his holy habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God sets the lonely in families.</p>

<p>He brings out the prisoners with singing,</p>

<p>but the rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> God, when you went out before your people,</p>

<p>when you marched through the wilderness... Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The earth trembled.</p>

<p>The sky also poured down rain at the presence of the God of Sinai—</p>

<p>at the presence of God, the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You, God, sent a plentiful rain.</p>

<p>You confirmed your inheritance, when it was weary.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Your congregation lived therein.</p>

<p>You, God, prepared your goodness for the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Lord announced the word.</p>

<p>The ones who proclaim it are a great company.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Kings of armies flee! They flee!”</p>

<p>She who waits at home divides the plunder,</p>

<p><a id="c68_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> while you sleep among the camp fires,</p>

<p>the wings of a dove sheathed with silver,</p>

<p>her feathers with shining gold.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When the Almighty scattered kings in her,</p>

<p>it snowed on Zalmon.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The mountains of Bashan are majestic mountains.</p>

<p>The mountains of Bashan are rugged.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Why do you look in envy, you rugged mountains,</p>

<p>at the mountain where God chooses to reign?</p>

<p>Yes, Yahweh will dwell there forever.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The chariots of God are tens of thousands and thousands of thousands.</p>

<p>The Lord is among them, from Sinai, into the sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You have ascended on high.</p>

<p>You have led away captives.</p>

<p>You have received gifts among men,</p>

<p>yes, among the rebellious also, that Yah God might dwell there.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears our burdens,</p>

<p>even the God who is our salvation. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> God is to us a God of deliverance.</p>

<p>To Yahweh, the Lord, belongs escape from death.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But God will strike through the head of his enemies,</p>

<p>the hairy scalp of such a one as still continues in his guiltiness.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Lord said, “I will bring you again from Bashan,</p>

<p>I will bring you again from the depths of the sea;</p>

<p><a id="c68_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> That you may crush them, dipping your foot in blood,</p>

<p>that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from your enemies.”</p>

<p><a id="c68_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They have seen your processions, God,</p>

<p>even the processions of my God, my King, into the sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The singers went before, the minstrels followed after,</p>

<p>among the ladies playing with tambourines,</p>

<p><a id="c68_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “Bless God in the congregations,</p>

<p>even the Lord in the assembly of Israel!”</p>

<p><a id="c68_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> There is little Benjamin, their ruler,</p>

<p>the princes of Judah, their council,</p>

<p>the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Your God has commanded your strength.</p>

<p>Strengthen, God, that which you have done for us.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Because of your temple at Jerusalem,</p>

<p>kings shall bring presents to you.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Rebuke the wild animal of the reeds,</p>

<p>the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples.</p>

<p>Being humbled, may it bring bars of silver.</p>

<p>Scatter the nations that delight in war.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Princes shall come out of Egypt.</p>

<p>Ethiopia shall hurry to stretch out her hands to God.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth!</p>

<p>Sing praises to the Lord! Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> To him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which are of old;</p>

<p>behold, he utters his voice, a mighty voice.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Ascribe strength to God!</p>

<p>His excellency is over Israel,</p>

<p>his strength is in the skies.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> You are awesome, God, in your sanctuaries.</p>

<p>The God of Israel gives strength and power to his people.</p>

<p>Praise be to God!</p>

</body>
</html>