<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In you, Yahweh, I take refuge.</p>

<p>Let me never be disappointed.</p>

<p>Deliver me in your righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bow down your ear to me.</p>

<p>Deliver me speedily.</p>

<p>Be to me a strong rock,</p>

<p>a house of defense to save me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For you are my rock and my fortress,</p>

<p>therefore for your name’s sake lead me and guide me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Pluck me out of the net that they have laid secretly for me,</p>

<p>for you are my stronghold.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Into your hand I commend my spirit.</p>

<p>You redeem me, Yahweh, God of truth.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I hate those who regard lying vanities,</p>

<p>but I trust in Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will be glad and rejoice in your loving kindness,</p>

<p>for you have seen my affliction.</p>

<p>You have known my soul in adversities.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy.</p>

<p>You have set my feet in a large place.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Have mercy on me, Yahweh, for I am in distress.</p>

<p>My eye, my soul, and my body waste away with grief.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For my life is spent with sorrow,</p>

<p>my years with sighing.</p>

<p>My strength fails because of my iniquity.</p>

<p>My bones are wasted away.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because of all my adversaries I have become utterly contemptible to my neighbors,</p>

<p>A fear to my acquaintances.</p>

<p>Those who saw me on the street fled from me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I am forgotten from their hearts like a dead man.</p>

<p>I am like broken pottery.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have heard the slander of many, terror on every side,</p>

<p>while they conspire together against me,</p>

<p>they plot to take away my life.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I trust in you, Yahweh.</p>

<p>I said, “You are my God.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My times are in your hand.</p>

<p>Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Make your face to shine on your servant.</p>

<p>Save me in your loving kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let me not be disappointed, Yahweh, for I have called on you.</p>

<p>Let the wicked be disappointed.</p>

<p>Let them be silent in Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let the lying lips be mute,</p>

<p>which speak against the righteous insolently, with pride and contempt.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Oh how great is your goodness,</p>

<p>which you have laid up for those who fear you,</p>

<p>which you have worked for those who take refuge in you,</p>

<p>before the sons of men!</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In the shelter of your presence you will hide them from the plotting of man.</p>

<p>You will keep them secretly in a dwelling away from the strife of tongues.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Praise be to Yahweh,</p>

<p>for he has shown me his marvelous loving kindness in a strong city.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> As for me, I said in my haste, “I am cut off from before your eyes.”</p>

<p>Nevertheless you heard the voice of my petitions when I cried to you.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Oh love Yahweh, all you his saints!</p>

<p>Yahweh preserves the faithful,</p>

<p>and fully recompenses him who behaves arrogantly.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Be strong, and let your heart take courage,</p>

<p>all you who hope in Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>