<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 112</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 112</h2>

<p><a id="c112_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise Yah!<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>Blessed is the man who fears Yahweh,</p>

<p>who delights greatly in his commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c112_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> His offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> will be mighty in the land.</p>

<p>The generation of the upright will be blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c112_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Wealth and riches are in his house.</p>

<p>His righteousness endures forever.</p>

<p><a id="c112_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Light dawns in the darkness for the upright,</p>

<p>gracious, merciful, and righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c112_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> It is well with the man who deals graciously and lends.</p>

<p>He will maintain his cause in judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c112_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For he will never be shaken.</p>

<p>The righteous will be remembered forever.</p>

<p><a id="c112_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He will not be afraid of evil news.</p>

<p>His heart is steadfast, trusting in Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c112_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> His heart is established.</p>

<p>He will not be afraid in the end when he sees his adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c112_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He has dispersed, he has given to the poor.</p>

<p>His righteousness endures forever.</p>

<p>His horn will be exalted with honor.</p>

<p><a id="c112_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The wicked will see it, and be grieved.</p>

<p>He shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away.</p>

<p>The desire of the wicked will perish.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Psalm 112 is an acrostic poem, with each verse after the initial “Praise Yah!” starting with a letter of the alphabet (ordered from Alef to Tav).</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>