<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 89</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 89</h2>

<p><a id="c89_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will sing of the loving kindness of Yahweh forever.</p>

<p>With my mouth, I will make known your faithfulness to all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I indeed declare, “Love stands firm forever.</p>

<p>You established the heavens.</p>

<p>Your faithfulness is in them.”</p>

<p><a id="c89_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “I have made a covenant with my chosen one,</p>

<p>I have sworn to David, my servant,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> ‘I will establish your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> forever,</p>

<p>and build up your throne to all generations.’” Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The heavens will praise your wonders, Yahweh;</p>

<p>your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For who in the skies can be compared to Yahweh?</p>

<p>Who among the sons of the heavenly beings is like Yahweh,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> a very awesome God in the council of the holy ones,</p>

<p>to be feared above all those who are around him?</p>

<p><a id="c89_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh, God of Armies, who is a mighty one, like you?</p>

<p>Yah, your faithfulness is around you.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You rule the pride of the sea.</p>

<p>When its waves rise up, you calm them.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You have broken Rahab in pieces, like one of the slain.</p>

<p>You have scattered your enemies with your mighty arm.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heavens are yours.</p>

<p>The earth also is yours;</p>

<p>the world and its fullness.</p>

<p>You have founded them.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The north and the south, you have created them.</p>

<p>Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You have a mighty arm.</p>

<p>Your hand is strong, and your right hand is exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne.</p>

<p>Loving kindness and truth go before your face.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blessed are the people who learn to acclaim you.</p>

<p>They walk in the light of your presence, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In your name they rejoice all day.</p>

<p>In your righteousness, they are exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For you are the glory of their strength.</p>

<p>In your favor, our horn will be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For our shield belongs to Yahweh;</p>

<p>our king to the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then you spoke in vision to your saints,</p>

<p>and said, “I have given strength to the warrior.</p>

<p>I have exalted a young man from the people.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have found David, my servant.</p>

<p>I have anointed him with my holy oil,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> with whom my hand shall be established.</p>

<p>My arm will also strengthen him.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> No enemy will tax him.</p>

<p>No wicked man will oppress him.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I will beat down his adversaries before him,</p>

<p>and strike those who hate him.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But my faithfulness and my loving kindness will be with him.</p>

<p>In my name, his horn will be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I will set his hand also on the sea,</p>

<p>and his right hand on the rivers.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He will call to me, ‘You are my Father,</p>

<p>my God, and the rock of my salvation!’</p>

<p><a id="c89_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I will also appoint him my firstborn,</p>

<p>the highest of the kings of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I will keep my loving kindness for him forever more.</p>

<p>My covenant will stand firm with him.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I will also make his offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> endure forever,</p>

<p>and his throne as the days of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If his children forsake my law,</p>

<p>and don’t walk in my ordinances;</p>

<p><a id="c89_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> if they break my statutes,</p>

<p>and don’t keep my commandments;</p>

<p><a id="c89_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> then I will punish their sin with the rod,</p>

<p>and their iniquity with stripes.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But I will not completely take my loving kindness from him,</p>

<p>nor allow my faithfulness to fail.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I will not break my covenant,</p>

<p>nor alter what my lips have uttered.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Once I have sworn by my holiness,</p>

<p>I will not lie to David.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> His offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> will endure forever,</p>

<p>his throne like the sun before me.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> It will be established forever like the moon,</p>

<p>the faithful witness in the sky.” Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But you have rejected and spurned.</p>

<p>You have been angry with your anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> You have renounced the covenant of your servant.</p>

<p>You have defiled his crown in the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> You have broken down all his hedges.</p>

<p>You have brought his strongholds to ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> All who pass by the way rob him.</p>

<p>He has become a reproach to his neighbors.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries.</p>

<p>You have made all of his enemies rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Yes, you turn back the edge of his sword,</p>

<p>and haven’t supported him in battle.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> You have ended his splendor,</p>

<p>and thrown his throne down to the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> You have shortened the days of his youth.</p>

<p>You have covered him with shame. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> How long, Yahweh?</p>

<p>Will you hide yourself forever?</p>

<p>Will your wrath burn like fire?</p>

<p><a id="c89_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Remember how short my time is!</p>

<p>For what vanity have you created all the children of men!</p>

<p><a id="c89_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> What man is he who shall live and not see death,</p>

<p>who shall deliver his soul from the power of Sheol?<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Lord, where are your former loving kindnesses,</p>

<p>which you swore to David in your faithfulness?</p>

<p><a id="c89_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Remember, Lord, the reproach of your servants,</p>

<p>how I bear in my heart the taunts of all the mighty peoples,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> With which your enemies have mocked, Yahweh,</p>

<p>with which they have mocked the footsteps of your anointed one.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Blessed be Yahweh forever more.</p>

<p>Amen, and Amen.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>