<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 80</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 80</h2>

<p><a id="c80_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear us, Shepherd of Israel,</p>

<p>you who lead Joseph like a flock,</p>

<p>you who sit above the cherubim, shine out.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might!</p>

<p>Come to save us!</p>

<p><a id="c80_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Turn us again, God.</p>

<p>Cause your face to shine,</p>

<p>and we will be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yahweh God of Armies,</p>

<p>How long will you be angry against the prayer of your people?</p>

<p><a id="c80_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You have fed them with the bread of tears,</p>

<p>and given them tears to drink in large measure.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You make us a source of contention to our neighbors.</p>

<p>Our enemies laugh among themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Turn us again, God of Armies.</p>

<p>Cause your face to shine,</p>

<p>and we will be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You brought a vine out of Egypt.</p>

<p>You drove out the nations, and planted it.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You cleared the ground for it.</p>

<p>It took deep root, and filled the land.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The mountains were covered with its shadow.</p>

<p>Its boughs were like God’s cedars.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> It sent out its branches to the sea,</p>

<p>Its shoots to the River.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why have you broken down its walls,</p>

<p>so that all those who pass by the way pluck it?</p>

<p><a id="c80_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The boar out of the wood ravages it.</p>

<p>The wild animals of the field feed on it.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Turn again, we beg you, God of Armies.</p>

<p>Look down from heaven, and see, and visit this vine,</p>

<p><a id="c80_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> the stock which your right hand planted,</p>

<p>the branch that you made strong for yourself.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It’s burned with fire.</p>

<p>It’s cut down.</p>

<p>They perish at your rebuke.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let your hand be on the man of your right hand,</p>

<p>on the son of man whom you made strong for yourself.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So we will not turn away from you.</p>

<p>Revive us, and we will call on your name.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Turn us again, Yahweh God of Armies.</p>

<p>Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved.</p>

</body>
</html>