<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The king rejoices in your strength, Yahweh!</p>

<p>How greatly he rejoices in your salvation!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You have given him his heart’s desire,</p>

<p>and have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For you meet him with the blessings of goodness.</p>

<p>You set a crown of fine gold on his head.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He asked life of you, you gave it to him,</p>

<p>even length of days forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His glory is great in your salvation.</p>

<p>You lay honor and majesty on him.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For you make him most blessed forever.</p>

<p>You make him glad with joy in your presence.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the king trusts in Yahweh.</p>

<p>Through the loving kindness of the Most High, he shall not be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Your hand will find out all of your enemies.</p>

<p>Your right hand will find out those who hate you.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You will make them as a fiery furnace in the time of your anger.</p>

<p>Yahweh will swallow them up in his wrath.</p>

<p>The fire shall devour them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You will destroy their descendants from the earth,</p>

<p>their posterity from among the children of men.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For they intended evil against you.</p>

<p>They plotted evil against you which cannot succeed.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For you will make them turn their back,</p>

<p>when you aim drawn bows at their face.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be exalted, Yahweh, in your strength,</p>

<p>so we will sing and praise your power.</p>

</body>
</html>