<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 107</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 107</h2>

<p><a id="c107_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give thanks to Yahweh,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> for he is good,</p>

<p>for his loving kindness endures forever.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let the redeemed by Yahweh say so,</p>

<p>whom he has redeemed from the hand of the adversary,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And gathered out of the lands,</p>

<p>from the east and from the west,</p>

<p>from the north and from the south.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way.</p>

<p>They found no city to live in.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hungry and thirsty,</p>

<p>their soul fainted in them.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble,</p>

<p>and he delivered them out of their distresses,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> he led them also by a straight way,</p>

<p>that they might go to a city to live in.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,</p>

<p>for his wonderful deeds to the children of men!</p>

<p><a id="c107_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he satisfies the longing soul.</p>

<p>He fills the hungry soul with good.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death,</p>

<p>being bound in affliction and iron,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> because they rebelled against the words of God,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>and condemned the counsel of the Most High.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore he brought down their heart with labor.</p>

<p>They fell down, and there was no one to help.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble,</p>

<p>and he saved them out of their distresses.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death,</p>

<p>and broke away their chains.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,</p>

<p>for his wonderful deeds to the children of men!</p>

<p><a id="c107_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For he has broken the gates of brass,</p>

<p>and cut through bars of iron.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fools are afflicted because of their disobedience,</p>

<p>and because of their iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their soul abhors all kinds of food.</p>

<p>They draw near to the gates of death.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble,</p>

<p>he saves them out of their distresses.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He sends his word, and heals them,</p>

<p>and delivers them from their graves.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,</p>

<p>for his wonderful deeds to the children of men!</p>

<p><a id="c107_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving,</p>

<p>and declare his deeds with singing.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Those who go down to the sea in ships,</p>

<p>who do business in great waters;</p>

<p><a id="c107_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> These see Yahweh’s deeds,</p>

<p>and his wonders in the deep.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he commands, and raises the stormy wind,</p>

<p>which lifts up its waves.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They mount up to the sky; they go down again to the depths.</p>

<p>Their soul melts away because of trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They reel back and forth, and stagger like a drunken man,</p>

<p>and are at their wits’ end.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble,</p>

<p>and he brings them out of their distress.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He makes the storm a calm,</p>

<p>so that its waves are still.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then they are glad because it is calm,</p>

<p>so he brings them to their desired haven.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness,</p>

<p>for his wonderful deeds for the children of men!</p>

<p><a id="c107_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people,</p>

<p>and praise him in the seat of the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He turns rivers into a desert,</p>

<p>water springs into a thirsty ground,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and a fruitful land into a salt waste,</p>

<p>for the wickedness of those who dwell in it.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He turns a desert into a pool of water,</p>

<p>and a dry land into water springs.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> There he makes the hungry live,</p>

<p>that they may prepare a city to live in,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> sow fields, plant vineyards,</p>

<p>and reap the fruits of increase.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly.</p>

<p>He doesn’t allow their livestock to decrease.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Again, they are diminished and bowed down</p>

<p>through oppression, trouble, and sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He pours contempt on princes,</p>

<p>and causes them to wander in a trackless waste.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Yet he lifts the needy out of their affliction,</p>

<p>and increases their families like a flock.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The upright will see it, and be glad.</p>

<p>All the wicked will shut their mouths.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Whoever is wise will pay attention to these things.</p>

<p>They will consider the loving kindnesses of Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>