<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 86</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 86</h2>

<p><a id="c86_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear, Yahweh, and answer me,</p>

<p>for I am poor and needy.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Preserve my soul, for I am godly.</p>

<p>You, my God, save your servant who trusts in you.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be merciful to me, Lord,</p>

<p>for I call to you all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Bring joy to the soul of your servant,</p>

<p>for to you, Lord, do I lift up my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For you, Lord, are good, and ready to forgive;</p>

<p>abundant in loving kindness to all those who call on you.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear, Yahweh, my prayer.</p>

<p>Listen to the voice of my petitions.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the day of my trouble I will call on you,</p>

<p>for you will answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There is no one like you among the gods, Lord,</p>

<p>nor any deeds like your deeds.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All nations you have made will come and worship before you, Lord.</p>

<p>They shall glorify your name.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For you are great, and do wondrous things.</p>

<p>You are God alone.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Teach me your way, Yahweh.</p>

<p>I will walk in your truth.</p>

<p>Make my heart undivided to fear your name.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will praise you, Lord my God, with my whole heart.</p>

<p>I will glorify your name forever more.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For your loving kindness is great toward me.</p>

<p>You have delivered my soul from the lowest Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c86_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> God, the proud have risen up against me.</p>

<p>A company of violent men have sought after my soul,</p>

<p>and they don’t hold regard for you before them.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But you, Lord, are a merciful and gracious God,</p>

<p>slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Turn to me, and have mercy on me!</p>

<p>Give your strength to your servant.</p>

<p>Save the son of your servant.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Show me a sign of your goodness,</p>

<p>that those who hate me may see it, and be shamed,</p>

<p>because you, Yahweh, have helped me, and comforted me.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>