<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear, Yahweh, my righteous plea;</p>

<p>Give ear to my prayer, that doesn’t go out of deceitful lips.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my sentence come out of your presence.</p>

<p>Let your eyes look on equity.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have proved my heart.</p>

<p>You have visited me in the night.</p>

<p>You have tried me, and found nothing.</p>

<p>I have resolved that my mouth shall not disobey.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As for the deeds of men, by the word of your lips,</p>

<p>I have kept myself from the ways of the violent.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My steps have held fast to your paths.</p>

<p>My feet have not slipped.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have called on you, for you will answer me, God.</p>

<p>Turn your ear to me.</p>

<p>Hear my speech.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Show your marvelous loving kindness,</p>

<p>you who save those who take refuge by your right hand from their enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Keep me as the apple of your eye.</p>

<p>Hide me under the shadow of your wings,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> from the wicked who oppress me,</p>

<p>my deadly enemies, who surround me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They close up their callous hearts.</p>

<p>With their mouth they speak proudly.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They have now surrounded us in our steps.</p>

<p>They set their eyes to cast us down to the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He is like a lion that is greedy of his prey,</p>

<p>as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Arise, Yahweh, confront him.</p>

<p>Cast him down.</p>

<p>Deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword;</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> from men by your hand, Yahweh,</p>

<p>from men of the world, whose portion is in this life.</p>

<p>You fill the belly of your cherished ones.</p>

<p>Your sons have plenty,</p>

<p>and they store up wealth for their children.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As for me, I shall see your face in righteousness.</p>

<p>I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with seeing your form.</p>

</body>
</html>