<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 45</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 45</h2>

<p><a id="c45_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My heart overflows with a noble theme.</p>

<p>I recite my verses for the king.</p>

<p>My tongue is like the pen of a skillful writer.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You are the most excellent of the sons of men.</p>

<p>Grace has anointed your lips,</p>

<p>therefore God has blessed you forever.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Strap your sword on your thigh, mighty one:</p>

<p>your splendor and your majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In your majesty ride on victoriously on behalf of truth, humility, and righteousness.</p>

<p>Let your right hand display awesome deeds.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Your arrows are sharp.</p>

<p>The nations fall under you, with arrows in the heart of the king’s enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your throne, God, is forever and ever.</p>

<p>A scepter of equity is the scepter of your kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You have loved righteousness, and hated wickedness.</p>

<p>Therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness above your fellows.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All your garments smell like myrrh, aloes, and cassia.</p>

<p>Out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made you glad.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Kings’ daughters are among your honorable women.</p>

<p>At your right hand the queen stands in gold of Ophir.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Listen, daughter, consider, and turn your ear.</p>

<p>Forget your own people, and also your father’s house.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So the king will desire your beauty,</p>

<p>honor him, for he is your lord.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The daughter of Tyre comes with a gift.</p>

<p>The rich among the people entreat your favor.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The princess inside is all glorious.</p>

<p>Her clothing is interwoven with gold.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> She shall be led to the king in embroidered work.</p>

<p>The virgins, her companions who follow her, shall be brought to you.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> With gladness and rejoicing they shall be led.</p>

<p>They shall enter into the king’s palace.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Your sons will take the place of your fathers.</p>

<p>You shall make them princes in all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will make your name to be remembered in all generations.</p>

<p>Therefore the peoples shall give you thanks forever and ever.</p>

</body>
</html>