<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 94</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 94</h2>

<p><a id="c94_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh, you God to whom vengeance belongs,</p>

<p>you God to whom vengeance belongs, shine out.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Rise up, you judge of the earth.</p>

<p>Pay back the proud what they deserve.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh, how long will the wicked,</p>

<p>how long will the wicked triumph?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They pour out arrogant words.</p>

<p>All the evildoers boast.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They break your people in pieces, Yahweh,</p>

<p>and afflict your heritage.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They kill the widow and the alien,</p>

<p>and murder the fatherless.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They say, “Yah will not see,</p>

<p>neither will Jacob’s God consider.”</p>

<p><a id="c94_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Consider, you senseless among the people;</p>

<p>you fools, when will you be wise?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He who implanted the ear, won’t he hear?</p>

<p>He who formed the eye, won’t he see?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He who disciplines the nations, won’t he punish?</p>

<p>He who teaches man knows.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh knows the thoughts of man,</p>

<p>that they are futile.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the man whom you discipline, Yah,</p>

<p>and teach out of your law;</p>

<p><a id="c94_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> that you may give him rest from the days of adversity,</p>

<p>until the pit is dug for the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Yahweh won’t reject his people,</p>

<p>neither will he forsake his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For judgment will return to righteousness.</p>

<p>All the upright in heart shall follow it.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who will rise up for me against the wicked?</p>

<p>Who will stand up for me against the evildoers?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Unless Yahweh had been my help,</p>

<p>my soul would have soon lived in silence.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When I said, “My foot is slipping!”</p>

<p>Your loving kindness, Yahweh, held me up.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the multitude of my thoughts within me,</p>

<p>your comforts delight my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Shall the throne of wickedness have fellowship with you,</p>

<p>which brings about mischief by statute?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous,</p>

<p>and condemn the innocent blood.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Yahweh has been my high tower,</p>

<p>my God, the rock of my refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He has brought on them their own iniquity,</p>

<p>and will cut them off in their own wickedness.</p>

<p>Yahweh, our God, will cut them off.</p>

</body>
</html>