<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 90</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 90</h2>

<p><a id="c90_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lord,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> you have been our dwelling place for all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before the mountains were born,</p>

<p>before you had formed the earth and the world,</p>

<p>even from everlasting to everlasting, you are God.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You turn man to destruction, saying,</p>

<p>“Return, you children of men.”</p>

<p><a id="c90_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For a thousand years in your sight are just like yesterday when it is past,</p>

<p>like a watch in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You sweep them away as they sleep.</p>

<p>In the morning they sprout like new grass.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the morning it sprouts and springs up.</p>

<p>By evening, it is withered and dry.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For we are consumed in your anger.</p>

<p>We are troubled in your wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have set our iniquities before you,</p>

<p>our secret sins in the light of your presence.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For all our days have passed away in your wrath.</p>

<p>We bring our years to an end as a sigh.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The days of our years are seventy,</p>

<p>or even by reason of strength eighty years;</p>

<p>yet their pride is but labor and sorrow,</p>

<p>for it passes quickly, and we fly away.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who knows the power of your anger,</p>

<p>your wrath according to the fear that is due to you?</p>

<p><a id="c90_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So teach us to count our days,</p>

<p>that we may gain a heart of wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Relent, Yahweh!<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>How long?</p>

<p>Have compassion on your servants!</p>

<p><a id="c90_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Satisfy us in the morning with your loving kindness,</p>

<p>that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us,</p>

<p>for as many years as we have seen evil.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let your work appear to your servants;</p>

<p>your glory to their children.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let the favor of the Lord our God be on us;</p>

<p>establish the work of our hands for us;</p>

<p>yes, establish the work of our hands.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>