<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 62</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 62</h2>

<p><a id="c62_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My soul rests in God alone.</p>

<p>My salvation is from him.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress—</p>

<p>I will never be greatly shaken.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> How long will you assault a man,</p>

<p>would all of you throw him down,</p>

<p>Like a leaning wall, like a tottering fence?</p>

<p><a id="c62_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They fully intend to throw him down from his lofty place.</p>

<p>They delight in lies.</p>

<p>They bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My soul, wait in silence for God alone,</p>

<p>for my expectation is from him.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He alone is my rock and my salvation, my fortress.</p>

<p>I will not be shaken.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> With God is my salvation and my honor.</p>

<p>The rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Trust in him at all times, you people.</p>

<p>Pour out your heart before him.</p>

<p>God is a refuge for us. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely men of low degree are just a breath,</p>

<p>and men of high degree are a lie.</p>

<p>In the balances they will go up.</p>

<p>They are together lighter than a breath.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Don’t trust in oppression.</p>

<p>Don’t become vain in robbery.</p>

<p>If riches increase,</p>

<p>don’t set your heart on them.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God has spoken once;</p>

<p>twice I have heard this,</p>

<p>that power belongs to God.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Also to you, Lord, belongs loving kindness,</p>

<p>for you reward every man according to his work.</p>

</body>
</html>