<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The heavens declare the glory of God.</p>

<p>The expanse shows his handiwork.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Day after day they pour out speech,</p>

<p>and night after night they display knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> There is no speech nor language,</p>

<p>where their voice is not heard.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their voice has gone out through all the earth,</p>

<p>their words to the end of the world.</p>

<p>In them he has set a tent for the sun,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> which is as a bridegroom coming out of his room,</p>

<p>like a strong man rejoicing to run his course.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His going out is from the end of the heavens,</p>

<p>his circuit to its ends;</p>

<p>There is nothing hidden from its heat.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh’s law is perfect, restoring the soul.</p>

<p>Yahweh’s testimony is sure, making wise the simple.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh’s precepts are right, rejoicing the heart.</p>

<p>Yahweh’s commandment is pure, enlightening the eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The fear of Yahweh is clean, enduring forever.</p>

<p>Yahweh’s ordinances are true, and righteous altogether.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> More to be desired are they than gold, yes, than much fine gold;</p>

<p>sweeter also than honey and the extract of the honeycomb.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Moreover by them is your servant warned.</p>

<p>In keeping them there is great reward.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who can discern his errors?</p>

<p>Forgive me from hidden errors.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins.</p>

<p>Let them not have dominion over me.</p>

<p>Then I will be upright.</p>

<p>I will be blameless and innocent of great transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart</p>

<p>be acceptable in your sight,</p>

<p>Yahweh, my rock, and my redeemer.</p>

</body>
</html>