<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear this, all you peoples.</p>

<p>Listen, all you inhabitants of the world,</p>

<p><a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> both low and high,</p>

<p>rich and poor together.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My mouth will speak words of wisdom.</p>

<p>My heart shall utter understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will incline my ear to a proverb.</p>

<p>I will open my riddle on the harp.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why should I fear in the days of evil,</p>

<p>when iniquity at my heels surrounds me?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Those who trust in their wealth,</p>

<p>and boast in the multitude of their riches—</p>

<p><a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> none of them can by any means redeem his brother,</p>

<p>nor give God a ransom for him.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the redemption of their life is costly,</p>

<p>no payment is ever enough,</p>

<p><a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> that he should live on forever,</p>

<p>that he should not see corruption.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he sees that wise men die;</p>

<p>likewise the fool and the senseless perish,</p>

<p>and leave their wealth to others.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their inward thought is that their houses will endure forever,</p>

<p>and their dwelling places to all generations.</p>

<p>They name their lands after themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But man, despite his riches, doesn’t endure.</p>

<p>He is like the animals that perish.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the destiny of those who are foolish,</p>

<p>and of those who approve their sayings. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They are appointed as a flock for Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>Death shall be their shepherd.</p>

<p>The upright shall have dominion over them in the morning.</p>

<p>Their beauty shall decay in Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>far from their mansion.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a></p>

<p>for he will receive me. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Don’t be afraid when a man is made rich,</p>

<p>when the glory of his house is increased;</p>

<p><a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for when he dies he will carry nothing away.</p>

<p>His glory won’t descend after him.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Though while he lived he blessed his soul—</p>

<p>and men praise you when you do well for yourself—</p>

<p><a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> he shall go to the generation of his fathers.</p>

<p>They shall never see the light.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A man who has riches without understanding,</p>

<p>is like the animals that perish.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead. </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>