<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 83</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 83</h2>

<p><a id="c83_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God, don’t keep silent.</p>

<p>Don’t keep silent,</p>

<p>and don’t be still, God.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For, behold, your enemies are stirred up.</p>

<p>Those who hate you have lifted up their heads.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They conspire with cunning against your people.</p>

<p>They plot against your cherished ones.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Come,” they say, “let’s destroy them as a nation,</p>

<p>that the name of Israel may be remembered no more.”</p>

<p><a id="c83_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For they have conspired together with one mind.</p>

<p>They form an alliance against you.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites;</p>

<p>Moab, and the Hagrites;</p>

<p><a id="c83_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek;</p>

<p>Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre;</p>

<p><a id="c83_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Assyria also is joined with them.</p>

<p>They have helped the children of Lot. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do to them as you did to Midian,</p>

<p>as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the river Kishon;</p>

<p><a id="c83_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> who perished at Endor,</p>

<p>who became as dung for the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb;</p>

<p>yes, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna;</p>

<p><a id="c83_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> who said, “Let us take possession of God’s pasture lands.”</p>

<p><a id="c83_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> My God, make them like tumbleweed;</p>

<p>like chaff before the wind.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As the fire that burns the forest,</p>

<p>as the flame that sets the mountains on fire,</p>

<p><a id="c83_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> so pursue them with your tempest,</p>

<p>and terrify them with your storm.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Fill their faces with confusion,</p>

<p>that they may seek your name, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let them be disappointed and dismayed forever.</p>

<p>Yes, let them be confounded and perish;</p>

<p><a id="c83_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> that they may know that you alone, whose name is Yahweh,</p>

<p>are the Most High over all the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>