<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 44</h2>

<p><a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> We have heard with our ears, God;</p>

<p>our fathers have told us,</p>

<p>what work you did in their days,</p>

<p>in the days of old.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You drove out the nations with your hand,</p>

<p>but you planted them.</p>

<p>You afflicted the peoples,</p>

<p>but you spread them abroad.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For they didn’t get the land in possession by their own sword,</p>

<p>neither did their own arm save them;</p>

<p>but your right hand, and your arm, and the light of your face,</p>

<p>because you were favorable to them.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You are my King, God.</p>

<p>Command victories for Jacob!</p>

<p><a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Through you, will we push down our adversaries.</p>

<p>Through your name, will we tread them under who rise up against us.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I will not trust in my bow,</p>

<p>neither shall my sword save me.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But you have saved us from our adversaries,</p>

<p>and have shamed those who hate us.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In God we have made our boast all day long,</p>

<p>we will give thanks to your name forever. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But now you rejected us, and brought us to dishonor,</p>

<p>and don’t go out with our armies.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You make us turn back from the adversary.</p>

<p>Those who hate us take plunder for themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You have made us like sheep for food,</p>

<p>and have scattered us among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You sell your people for nothing,</p>

<p>and have gained nothing from their sale.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You make us a reproach to our neighbors,</p>

<p>a scoffing and a derision to those who are around us.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You make us a byword among the nations,</p>

<p>a shaking of the head among the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All day long my dishonor is before me,</p>

<p>and shame covers my face,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> At the taunt of one who reproaches and verbally abuses,</p>

<p>because of the enemy and the avenger.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All this has come on us,</p>

<p>yet have we not forgotten you,</p>

<p>Neither have we been false to your covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Our heart has not turned back,</p>

<p>neither have our steps strayed from your path,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Though you have crushed us in the haunt of jackals,</p>

<p>and covered us with the shadow of death.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If we have forgotten the name of our God,</p>

<p>or spread out our hands to a strange god;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> won’t God search this out?</p>

<p>For he knows the secrets of the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yes, for your sake we are killed all day long.</p>

<p>We are regarded as sheep for the slaughter.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Wake up!</p>

<p>Why do you sleep, Lord?<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>Arise!</p>

<p>Don’t reject us forever.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Why do you hide your face,</p>

<p>and forget our affliction and our oppression?</p>

<p><a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For our soul is bowed down to the dust.</p>

<p>Our body clings to the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Rise up to help us.</p>

<p>Redeem us for your loving kindness’ sake.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.” </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>