<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 48</h2>

<p><a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised,</p>

<p>in the city of our God, in his holy mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth,</p>

<p>is Mount Zion, on the north sides,</p>

<p>the city of the great King.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God has shown himself in her citadels as a refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For, behold, the kings assembled themselves,</p>

<p>they passed by together.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They saw it, then they were amazed.</p>

<p>They were dismayed.</p>

<p>They hurried away.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Trembling took hold of them there,</p>

<p>pain, as of a woman in travail.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> With the east wind, you break the ships of Tarshish.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As we have heard, so we have seen,</p>

<p>in the city of Yahweh of Armies, in the city of our God.</p>

<p>God will establish it forever. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We have thought about your loving kindness, God,</p>

<p>in the middle of your temple.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As is your name, God,</p>

<p>so is your praise to the ends of the earth.</p>

<p>Your right hand is full of righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let Mount Zion be glad!</p>

<p>Let the daughters of Judah rejoice,</p>

<p>Because of your judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Walk about Zion, and go around her.</p>

<p>Number its towers.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Mark well her bulwarks.</p>

<p>Consider her palaces,</p>

<p>that you may tell it to the next generation.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For this God is our God forever and ever.</p>

<p>He will be our guide even to death.</p>

</body>
</html>