<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?</p>

<p>Why are you so far from helping me, and from the words of my groaning?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My God, I cry in the daytime, but you don’t answer;</p>

<p>in the night season, and am not silent.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But you are holy,</p>

<p>you who inhabit the praises of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Our fathers trusted in you.</p>

<p>They trusted, and you delivered them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They cried to you, and were delivered.</p>

<p>They trusted in you, and were not disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I am a worm, and no man;</p>

<p>a reproach of men, and despised by the people.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All those who see me mock me.</p>

<p>They insult me with their lips. They shake their heads, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “He trusts in Yahweh;</p>

<p>let him deliver him.</p>

<p>Let him rescue him, since he delights in him.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But you brought me out of the womb.</p>

<p>You made me trust while at my mother’s breasts.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I was thrown on you from my mother’s womb.</p>

<p>You are my God since my mother bore me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Don’t be far from me, for trouble is near.</p>

<p>For there is no one to help.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Many bulls have surrounded me.</p>

<p>Strong bulls of Bashan have encircled me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They open their mouths wide against me,</p>

<p>lions tearing prey and roaring.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am poured out like water.</p>

<p>All my bones are out of joint.</p>

<p>My heart is like wax;</p>

<p>it is melted within me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My strength is dried up like a potsherd.</p>

<p>My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth.</p>

<p>You have brought me into the dust of death.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For dogs have surrounded me.</p>

<p>A company of evildoers have enclosed me.</p>

<p>They have pierced my hands and feet.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I can count all of my bones.</p>

<p>They look and stare at me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They divide my garments among them.</p>

<p>They cast lots for my clothing.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But don’t be far off, Yahweh.</p>

<p>You are my help: hurry to help me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Deliver my soul from the sword,</p>

<p>my precious life from the power of the dog.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Save me from the lion’s mouth!</p>

<p>Yes, from the horns of the wild oxen, you have answered me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I will declare your name to my brothers.</p>

<p>Among the assembly, I will praise you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> You who fear Yahweh, praise him!</p>

<p>All you descendants of Jacob, glorify him!</p>

<p>Stand in awe of him, all you descendants of Israel!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted,</p>

<p>Neither has he hidden his face from him;</p>

<p>but when he cried to him, he heard.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Of you comes my praise in the great assembly.</p>

<p>I will pay my vows before those who fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The humble shall eat and be satisfied.</p>

<p>They shall praise Yahweh who seek after him.</p>

<p>Let your hearts live forever.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to Yahweh.</p>

<p>All the relatives of the nations shall worship before you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the kingdom is Yahweh’s.</p>

<p>He is the ruler over the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> All the rich ones of the earth shall eat and worship.</p>

<p>All those who go down to the dust shall bow before him,</p>

<p>even he who can’t keep his soul alive.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Posterity shall serve him.</p>

<p>Future generations shall be told about the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> They shall come and shall declare his righteousness to a people that shall be born,</p>

<p>for he has done it.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>So Dead Sea Scrolls. Masoretic Text reads, “Like a lion, they pin my hands and feet.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>