<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Contend, Yahweh, with those who contend with me.</p>

<p>Fight against those who fight against me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take hold of shield and buckler,</p>

<p>and stand up for my help.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Brandish the spear and block those who pursue me.</p>

<p>Tell my soul, “I am your salvation.”</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let those who seek after my soul be disappointed and brought to dishonor.</p>

<p>Let those who plot my ruin be turned back and confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let them be as chaff before the wind,</p>

<p>Yahweh’s angel driving them on.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let their way be dark and slippery,</p>

<p>Yahweh’s angel pursuing them.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For without cause they have hidden their net in a pit for me.</p>

<p>Without cause they have dug a pit for my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let destruction come on him unawares.</p>

<p>Let his net that he has hidden catch himself.</p>

<p>Let him fall into that destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My soul shall be joyful in Yahweh.</p>

<p>It shall rejoice in his salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All my bones shall say, “Yahweh, who is like you,</p>

<p>who delivers the poor from him who is too strong for him;</p>

<p>yes, the poor and the needy from him who robs him?”</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Unrighteous witnesses rise up.</p>

<p>They ask me about things that I don’t know about.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They reward me evil for good,</p>

<p>to the bereaving of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth.</p>

<p>I afflicted my soul with fasting.</p>

<p>My prayer returned into my own bosom.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I behaved myself as though it had been my friend or my brother.</p>

<p>I bowed down mourning, as one who mourns his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But in my adversity, they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together.</p>

<p>The attackers gathered themselves together against me, and I didn’t know it.</p>

<p>They tore at me, and didn’t cease.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Like the profane mockers in feasts,</p>

<p>they gnashed their teeth at me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Lord, how long will you look on?</p>

<p>Rescue my soul from their destruction,</p>

<p>my precious life from the lions.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will give you thanks in the great assembly.</p>

<p>I will praise you among many people.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Don’t let those who are my enemies wrongfully rejoice over me;</p>

<p>neither let those who hate me without a cause wink their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For they don’t speak peace,</p>

<p>but they devise deceitful words against those who are quiet in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yes, they opened their mouth wide against me.</p>

<p>They said, “Aha! Aha! Our eye has seen it!”</p>

<p><a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You have seen it, Yahweh. Don’t keep silent.</p>

<p>Lord, don’t be far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Wake up! Rise up to defend me, my God!</p>

<p>My Lord, contend for me!</p>

<p><a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Vindicate me, Yahweh my God, according to your righteousness.</p>

<p>Don’t let them gloat over me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Don’t let them say in their heart, “Aha! That’s the way we want it!”</p>

<p>Don’t let them say, “We have swallowed him up!”</p>

<p><a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Let them be disappointed and confounded together who rejoice at my calamity.</p>

<p>Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor who magnify themselves against me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Let them shout for joy and be glad, who favor my righteous cause.</p>

<p>Yes, let them say continually, “Yahweh be magnified,</p>

<p>who has pleasure in the prosperity of his servant!”</p>

<p><a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My tongue shall talk about your righteousness and about your praise all day long.</p>

</body>
</html>