<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 69</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 69</h2>

<p><a id="c69_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Save me, God,</p>

<p>for the waters have come up to my neck!</p>

<p><a id="c69_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold.</p>

<p>I have come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I am weary with my crying.</p>

<p>My throat is dry.</p>

<p>My eyes fail, looking for my God.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head.</p>

<p>Those who want to cut me off, being my enemies wrongfully, are mighty.</p>

<p>I have to restore what I didn’t take away.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God, you know my foolishness.</p>

<p>My sins aren’t hidden from you.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Don’t let those who wait for you be shamed through me, Lord Yahweh of Armies.</p>

<p>Don’t let those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because for your sake, I have borne reproach.</p>

<p>Shame has covered my face.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have become a stranger to my brothers,</p>

<p>an alien to my mother’s children.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the zeal of your house consumes me.</p>

<p>The reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When I wept and I fasted,</p>

<p>that was to my reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When I made sackcloth my clothing,</p>

<p>I became a byword to them.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Those who sit in the gate talk about me.</p>

<p>I am the song of the drunkards.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as for me, my prayer is to you, Yahweh, in an acceptable time.</p>

<p>God, in the abundance of your loving kindness, answer me in the truth of your salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Deliver me out of the mire, and don’t let me sink.</p>

<p>Let me be delivered from those who hate me, and out of the deep waters.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Don’t let the flood waters overwhelm me,</p>

<p>neither let the deep swallow me up.</p>

<p>Don’t let the pit shut its mouth on me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Answer me, Yahweh, for your loving kindness is good.</p>

<p>According to the multitude of your tender mercies, turn to me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Don’t hide your face from your servant,</p>

<p>for I am in distress.</p>

<p>Answer me speedily!</p>

<p><a id="c69_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Draw near to my soul, and redeem it.</p>

<p>Ransom me because of my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You know my reproach, my shame, and my dishonor.</p>

<p>My adversaries are all before you.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Reproach has broken my heart, and I am full of heaviness.</p>

<p>I looked for some to take pity, but there was none;</p>

<p>for comforters, but I found none.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They also gave me gall for my food.</p>

<p>In my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let their table before them become a snare.</p>

<p>May it become a retribution and a trap.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Let their eyes be darkened, so that they can’t see.</p>

<p>Let their backs be continually bent.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Pour out your indignation on them.</p>

<p>Let the fierceness of your anger overtake them.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let their habitation be desolate.</p>

<p>Let no one dwell in their tents.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For they persecute him whom you have wounded.</p>

<p>They tell of the sorrow of those whom you have hurt.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Charge them with crime upon crime.</p>

<p>Don’t let them come into your righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Let them be blotted out of the book of life,</p>

<p>and not be written with the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But I am in pain and distress.</p>

<p>Let your salvation, God, protect me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will praise the name of God with a song,</p>

<p>and will magnify him with thanksgiving.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It will please Yahweh better than an ox,</p>

<p>or a bull that has horns and hoofs.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The humble have seen it, and are glad.</p>

<p>You who seek after God, let your heart live.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For Yahweh hears the needy,</p>

<p>and doesn’t despise his captive people.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let heaven and earth praise him;</p>

<p>the seas, and everything that moves therein!</p>

<p><a id="c69_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For God will save Zion, and build the cities of Judah.</p>

<p>They shall settle there, and own it.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The children also of his servants shall inherit it.</p>

<p>Those who love his name shall dwell therein.</p>

</body>
</html>