<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 78</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 78</h2>

<p><a id="c78_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear my teaching, my people.</p>

<p>Turn your ears to the words of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will open my mouth in a parable.</p>

<p>I will utter dark sayings of old,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Which we have heard and known,</p>

<p>and our fathers have told us.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We will not hide them from their children,</p>

<p>telling to the generation to come the praises of Yahweh,</p>

<p>his strength, and his wondrous deeds that he has done.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he established a testimony in Jacob,</p>

<p>and appointed a teaching in Israel,</p>

<p>which he commanded our fathers,</p>

<p>that they should make them known to their children;</p>

<p><a id="c78_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that the generation to come might know, even the children who should be born;</p>

<p>who should arise and tell their children,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> that they might set their hope in God,</p>

<p>and not forget God’s deeds,</p>

<p>but keep his commandments,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and might not be as their fathers,</p>

<p>a stubborn and rebellious generation,</p>

<p>a generation that didn’t make their hearts loyal,</p>

<p>whose spirit was not steadfast with God.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows,</p>

<p>turned back in the day of battle.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They didn’t keep God’s covenant,</p>

<p>and refused to walk in his law.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They forgot his doings,</p>

<p>his wondrous deeds that he had shown them.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He did marvelous things in the sight of their fathers,</p>

<p>in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He split the sea, and caused them to pass through.</p>

<p>He made the waters stand as a heap.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In the daytime he also led them with a cloud,</p>

<p>and all night with a light of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He split rocks in the wilderness,</p>

<p>and gave them drink abundantly as out of the depths.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He brought streams also out of the rock,</p>

<p>and caused waters to run down like rivers.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yet they still went on to sin against him,</p>

<p>to rebel against the Most High in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They tempted God in their heart</p>

<p>by asking food according to their desire.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yes, they spoke against God.</p>

<p>They said, “Can God prepare a table in the wilderness?</p>

<p><a id="c78_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, he struck the rock, so that waters gushed out,</p>

<p>and streams overflowed.</p>

<p>Can he give bread also?</p>

<p>Will he provide meat for his people?”</p>

<p><a id="c78_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore Yahweh heard, and was angry.</p>

<p>A fire was kindled against Jacob,</p>

<p>anger also went up against Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> because they didn’t believe in God,</p>

<p>and didn’t trust in his salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yet he commanded the skies above,</p>

<p>and opened the doors of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He rained down manna on them to eat,</p>

<p>and gave them food from the sky.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Man ate the bread of angels.</p>

<p>He sent them food to the full.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He caused the east wind to blow in the sky.</p>

<p>By his power he guided the south wind.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He rained also meat on them as the dust;</p>

<p>winged birds as the sand of the seas.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He let them fall in the middle of their camp,</p>

<p>around their habitations.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So they ate, and were well filled.</p>

<p>He gave them their own desire.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They didn’t turn from their cravings.</p>

<p>Their food was yet in their mouths,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> when the anger of God went up against them,</p>

<p>killed some of their fattest,</p>

<p>and struck down the young men of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For all this they still sinned,</p>

<p>and didn’t believe in his wondrous works.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Therefore he consumed their days in vanity,</p>

<p>and their years in terror.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> When he killed them, then they inquired after him.</p>

<p>They returned and sought God earnestly.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> They remembered that God was their rock,</p>

<p>the Most High God, their redeemer.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But they flattered him with their mouth,</p>

<p>and lied to him with their tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For their heart was not right with him,</p>

<p>neither were they faithful in his covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But he, being merciful, forgave iniquity, and didn’t destroy them.</p>

<p>Yes, many times he turned his anger away,</p>

<p>and didn’t stir up all his wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He remembered that they were but flesh,</p>

<p>a wind that passes away, and doesn’t come again.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness,</p>

<p>and grieved him in the desert!</p>

<p><a id="c78_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> They turned again and tempted God,</p>

<p>and provoked the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They didn’t remember his hand,</p>

<p>nor the day when he redeemed them from the adversary;</p>

<p><a id="c78_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> how he set his signs in Egypt,</p>

<p>his wonders in the field of Zoan,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> he turned their rivers into blood,</p>

<p>and their streams, so that they could not drink.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them;</p>

<p>and frogs, which destroyed them.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He gave also their increase to the caterpillar,</p>

<p>and their labor to the locust.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> He destroyed their vines with hail,</p>

<p>their sycamore fig trees with frost.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> He gave over their livestock also to the hail,</p>

<p>and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> He threw on them the fierceness of his anger,</p>

<p>wrath, indignation, and trouble,</p>

<p>and a band of angels of evil.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> He made a path for his anger.</p>

<p>He didn’t spare their soul from death,</p>

<p>but gave their life over to the pestilence,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> and struck all the firstborn in Egypt,</p>

<p>the chief of their strength in the tents of Ham.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> But he led out his own people like sheep,</p>

<p>and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> He led them safely, so that they weren’t afraid,</p>

<p>but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> He brought them to the border of his sanctuary,</p>

<p>to this mountain, which his right hand had taken.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> He also drove out the nations before them,</p>

<p>allotted them for an inheritance by line,</p>

<p>and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Yet they tempted and rebelled against the Most High God,</p>

<p>and didn’t keep his testimonies;</p>

<p><a id="c78_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> but turned back, and dealt treacherously like their fathers.</p>

<p>They were turned aside like a deceitful bow.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> For they provoked him to anger with their high places,</p>

<p>and moved him to jealousy with their engraved images.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> When God heard this, he was angry,</p>

<p>and greatly abhorred Israel;</p>

<p><a id="c78_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> So that he abandoned the tent of Shiloh,</p>

<p>the tent which he placed among men;</p>

<p><a id="c78_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> and delivered his strength into captivity,</p>

<p>his glory into the adversary’s hand.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> He also gave his people over to the sword,</p>

<p>and was angry with his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> Fire devoured their young men.</p>

<p>Their virgins had no wedding song.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Their priests fell by the sword,</p>

<p>and their widows couldn’t weep.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Then the Lord awakened as one out of sleep,</p>

<p>like a mighty man who shouts by reason of wine.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> He struck his adversaries backward.</p>

<p>He put them to a perpetual reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Moreover he rejected the tent of Joseph,</p>

<p>and didn’t choose the tribe of Ephraim,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> But chose the tribe of Judah,</p>

<p>Mount Zion which he loved.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> He built his sanctuary like the heights,</p>

<p>like the earth which he has established forever.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> He also chose David his servant,</p>

<p>and took him from the sheepfolds;</p>

<p><a id="c78_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> from following the ewes that have their young,</p>

<p>he brought him to be the shepherd of Jacob, his people,</p>

<p>and Israel, his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> So he was their shepherd according to the integrity of his heart,</p>

<p>and guided them by the skillfulness of his hands.</p>

</body>
</html>