<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Don’t fret because of evildoers,</p>

<p>neither be envious against those who work unrighteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For they shall soon be cut down like the grass,</p>

<p>and wither like the green herb.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Trust in Yahweh, and do good.</p>

<p>Dwell in the land, and enjoy safe pasture.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Also delight yourself in Yahweh,</p>

<p>and he will give you the desires of your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Commit your way to Yahweh.</p>

<p>Trust also in him, and he will do this:</p>

<p><a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> he will make your righteousness go out as the light,</p>

<p>and your justice as the noon day sun.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Rest in Yahweh, and wait patiently for him.</p>

<p>Don’t fret because of him who prospers in his way,</p>

<p>because of the man who makes wicked plots happen.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cease from anger, and forsake wrath.</p>

<p>Don’t fret, it leads only to evildoing.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For evildoers shall be cut off,</p>

<p>but those who wait for Yahweh shall inherit the land.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For yet a little while, and the wicked will be no more.</p>

<p>Yes, though you look for his place, he isn’t there.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the humble shall inherit the land,</p>

<p>and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wicked plots against the just,</p>

<p>and gnashes at him with his teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Lord will laugh at him,</p>

<p>for he sees that his day is coming.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow,</p>

<p>to cast down the poor and needy,</p>

<p>to kill those who are upright on the path.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Their sword shall enter into their own heart.</p>

<p>Their bows shall be broken.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Better is a little that the righteous has,</p>

<p>than the abundance of many wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the arms of the wicked shall be broken,</p>

<p>but Yahweh upholds the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yahweh knows the days of the perfect.</p>

<p>Their inheritance shall be forever.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They shall not be disappointed in the time of evil.</p>

<p>In the days of famine they shall be satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the wicked shall perish.</p>

<p>The enemies of Yahweh shall be like the beauty of the fields.</p>

<p>They will vanish—</p>

<p>vanish like smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The wicked borrow, and don’t pay back,</p>

<p>but the righteous give generously.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For such as are blessed by him shall inherit the land.</p>

<p>Those who are cursed by him shall be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A man’s goings are established by Yahweh.</p>

<p>He delights in his way.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Though he stumble, he shall not fall,</p>

<p>for Yahweh holds him up with his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have been young, and now am old,</p>

<p>yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken,</p>

<p>nor his children begging for bread.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All day long he deals graciously, and lends.</p>

<p>His offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Depart from evil, and do good.</p>

<p>Live securely forever.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For Yahweh loves justice,</p>

<p>and doesn’t forsake his saints.</p>

<p>They are preserved forever,</p>

<p>but the children of the wicked shall be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The righteous shall inherit the land,</p>

<p>and live in it forever.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The mouth of the righteous talks of wisdom.</p>

<p>His tongue speaks justice.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The law of his God is in his heart.</p>

<p>None of his steps shall slide.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The wicked watches the righteous,</p>

<p>and seeks to kill him.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Yahweh will not leave him in his hand,</p>

<p>nor condemn him when he is judged.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Wait for Yahweh, and keep his way,</p>

<p>and he will exalt you to inherit the land.</p>

<p>When the wicked are cut off, you shall see it.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I have seen the wicked in great power,</p>

<p>spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But he passed away, and behold, he was not.</p>

<p>Yes, I sought him, but he could not be found.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Mark the perfect man, and see the upright,</p>

<p>for there is a future for the man of peace.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> As for transgressors, they shall be destroyed together.</p>

<p>The future of the wicked shall be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But the salvation of the righteous is from Yahweh.</p>

<p>He is their stronghold in the time of trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Yahweh helps them, and rescues them.</p>

<p>He rescues them from the wicked, and saves them,</p>

<p>Because they have taken refuge in him.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>