<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 115</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 115</h2>

<p><a id="c115_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Not to us, Yahweh, not to us,</p>

<p>but to your name give glory,</p>

<p>for your loving kindness, and for your truth’s sake.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Why should the nations say,</p>

<p>“Where is their God, now?”</p>

<p><a id="c115_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But our God is in the heavens.</p>

<p>He does whatever he pleases.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their idols are silver and gold,</p>

<p>the work of men’s hands.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have mouths, but they don’t speak.</p>

<p>They have eyes, but they don’t see.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They have ears, but they don’t hear.</p>

<p>They have noses, but they don’t smell.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have hands, but they don’t feel.</p>

<p>They have feet, but they don’t walk,</p>

<p>neither do they speak through their throat.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Those who make them will be like them;</p>

<p>yes, everyone who trusts in them.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Israel, trust in Yahweh!</p>

<p>He is their help and their shield.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> House of Aaron, trust in Yahweh!</p>

<p>He is their help and their shield.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You who fear Yahweh, trust in Yahweh!</p>

<p>He is their help and their shield.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh remembers us. He will bless us.</p>

<p>He will bless the house of Israel.</p>

<p>He will bless the house of Aaron.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will bless those who fear Yahweh,</p>

<p>both small and great.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> May Yahweh increase you more and more,</p>

<p>you and your children.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blessed are you by Yahweh,</p>

<p>who made heaven and earth.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The heavens are the heavens of Yahweh;</p>

<p>but the earth has he given to the children of men.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The dead don’t praise Yah,</p>

<p>neither any who go down into silence;</p>

<p><a id="c115_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But we will bless Yah,</p>

<p>from this time forward and forever more.</p>

<p>Praise Yah!</p>

</body>
</html>