<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 103</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 103</h2>

<p><a id="c103_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise Yahweh, my soul!</p>

<p>All that is within me, praise his holy name!</p>

<p><a id="c103_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Praise Yahweh, my soul,</p>

<p>and don’t forget all his benefits;</p>

<p><a id="c103_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> who forgives all your sins;</p>

<p>who heals all your diseases;</p>

<p><a id="c103_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who redeems your life from destruction;</p>

<p>who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies;</p>

<p><a id="c103_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> who satisfies your desire with good things,</p>

<p>so that your youth is renewed like the eagle’s.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh executes righteous acts,</p>

<p>and justice for all who are oppressed.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He made known his ways to Moses,</p>

<p>his deeds to the children of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh is merciful and gracious,</p>

<p>slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He will not always accuse;</p>

<p>neither will he stay angry forever.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has not dealt with us according to our sins,</p>

<p>nor repaid us for our iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For as the heavens are high above the earth,</p>

<p>so great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As far as the east is from the west,</p>

<p>so far has he removed our transgressions from us.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Like a father has compassion on his children,</p>

<p>so Yahweh has compassion on those who fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he knows how we are made.</p>

<p>He remembers that we are dust.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As for man, his days are like grass.</p>

<p>As a flower of the field, so he flourishes.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the wind passes over it, and it is gone.</p>

<p>Its place remembers it no more.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But Yahweh’s loving kindness is from everlasting to everlasting with those who fear him,</p>

<p>his righteousness to children’s children;</p>

<p><a id="c103_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> to those who keep his covenant,</p>

<p>to those who remember to obey his precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yahweh has established his throne in the heavens.</p>

<p>His kingdom rules over all.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Praise Yahweh, you angels of his,</p>

<p>who are mighty in strength, who fulfill his word,</p>

<p>obeying the voice of his word.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Praise Yahweh, all you armies of his,</p>

<p>you servants of his, who do his pleasure.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Praise Yahweh, all you works of his,</p>

<p>in all places of his dominion.</p>

<p>Praise Yahweh, my soul!</p>

</body>
</html>