<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why do you stand far off, Yahweh?</p>

<p>Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In arrogance, the wicked hunt down the weak.</p>

<p>They are caught in the schemes that they devise.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the wicked boasts of his heart’s cravings.</p>

<p>He blesses the greedy, and condemns Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The wicked, in the pride of his face,</p>

<p>has no room in his thoughts for God.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His ways are prosperous at all times.</p>

<p>He is haughty, and your laws are far from his sight.</p>

<p>As for all his adversaries, he sneers at them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He says in his heart, “I shall not be shaken.</p>

<p>For generations I shall have no trouble.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> His mouth is full of cursing, deceit, and oppression.</p>

<p>Under his tongue is mischief and iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He lies in wait near the villages.</p>

<p>From ambushes, he murders the innocent.</p>

<p>His eyes are secretly set against the helpless.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He lurks in secret as a lion in his ambush.</p>

<p>He lies in wait to catch the helpless.</p>

<p>He catches the helpless, when he draws him in his net.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The helpless are crushed.</p>

<p>They collapse.</p>

<p>They fall under his strength.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He says in his heart, “God has forgotten.</p>

<p>He hides his face.</p>

<p>He will never see it.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Arise, Yahweh!</p>

<p>God, lift up your hand!</p>

<p>Don’t forget the helpless.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Why does the wicked person condemn God,</p>

<p>and say in his heart, “God won’t call me into account?”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But you do see trouble and grief.</p>

<p>You consider it to take it into your hand.</p>

<p>You help the victim and the fatherless.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Break the arm of the wicked.</p>

<p>As for the evil man, seek out his wickedness until you find none.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh is King forever and ever!</p>

<p>The nations will perish out of his land.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yahweh, you have heard the desire of the humble.</p>

<p>You will prepare their heart.</p>

<p>You will cause your ear to hear,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> to judge the fatherless and the oppressed,</p>

<p>that man who is of the earth may terrify no more.</p>

</body>
</html>