<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 79</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 79</h2>

<p><a id="c79_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God, the nations have come into your inheritance.</p>

<p>They have defiled your holy temple.</p>

<p>They have laid Jerusalem in heaps.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They have given the dead bodies of your servants to be food for the birds of the sky,</p>

<p>the flesh of your saints to the animals of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Their blood they have shed like water around Jerusalem.</p>

<p>There was no one to bury them.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We have become a reproach to our neighbors,</p>

<p>a scoffing and derision to those who are around us.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How long, Yahweh?</p>

<p>Will you be angry forever?</p>

<p>Will your jealousy burn like fire?</p>

<p><a id="c79_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Pour out your wrath on the nations that don’t know you;</p>

<p>on the kingdoms that don’t call on your name;</p>

<p><a id="c79_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For they have devoured Jacob,</p>

<p>and destroyed his homeland.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Don’t hold the iniquities of our forefathers against us.</p>

<p>Let your tender mercies speedily meet us,</p>

<p>for we are in desperate need.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Help us, God of our salvation, for the glory of your name.</p>

<p>Deliver us, and forgive our sins, for your name’s sake.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?”</p>

<p>Let it be known among the nations, before our eyes,</p>

<p>that vengeance for your servants’ blood is being poured out.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the sighing of the prisoner come before you.</p>

<p>According to the greatness of your power, preserve those who are sentenced to death.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Pay back to our neighbors seven times into their bosom</p>

<p>their reproach with which they have reproached you, Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So we, your people and sheep of your pasture,</p>

<p>will give you thanks forever.</p>

<p>We will praise you forever, to all generations.</p>

</body>
</html>