<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 132</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 132</h2>

<p><a id="c132_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh, remember David and all his affliction,</p>

<p><a id="c132_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> how he swore to Yahweh,</p>

<p>and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob:</p>

<p><a id="c132_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Surely I will not come into the structure of my house,</p>

<p>nor go up into my bed;</p>

<p><a id="c132_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will not give sleep to my eyes,</p>

<p>or slumber to my eyelids;</p>

<p><a id="c132_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> until I find out a place for Yahweh,</p>

<p>a dwelling for the Mighty One of Jacob.”</p>

<p><a id="c132_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah.</p>

<p>We found it in the field of Jaar:</p>

<p><a id="c132_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “We will go into his dwelling place.</p>

<p>We will worship at his footstool.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Arise, Yahweh, into your resting place;</p>

<p>you, and the ark of your strength.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let your priests be clothed with righteousness.</p>

<p>Let your saints shout for joy!”</p>

<p><a id="c132_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For your servant David’s sake,</p>

<p>don’t turn away the face of your anointed one.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh has sworn to David in truth.</p>

<p>He will not turn from it:</p>

<p>“I will set the fruit of your body on your throne.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If your children will keep my covenant,</p>

<p>my testimony that I will teach them,</p>

<p>their children also will sit on your throne forever more.”</p>

<p><a id="c132_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For Yahweh has chosen Zion.</p>

<p>He has desired it for his habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “This is my resting place forever.</p>

<p>Here I will live, for I have desired it.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will abundantly bless her provision.</p>

<p>I will satisfy her poor with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Her priests I will also clothe with salvation.</p>

<p>Her saints will shout aloud for joy.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There I will make the horn of David to bud.</p>

<p>I have ordained a lamp for my anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will clothe his enemies with shame,</p>

<p>but on himself, his crown will be resplendent.”</p>

</body>
</html>