<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 119</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 119</h2>

<p><a id="c119_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed are those whose ways are blameless,</p>

<p>who walk according to Yahweh’s law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed are those who keep his statutes,</p>

<p>who seek him with their whole heart.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yes, they do nothing wrong.</p>

<p>They walk in his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You have commanded your precepts,</p>

<p>that we should fully obey them.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Oh that my ways were steadfast</p>

<p>to obey your statutes!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then I wouldn’t be disappointed,</p>

<p>when I consider all of your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will give thanks to you with uprightness of heart,</p>

<p>when I learn your righteous judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will observe your statutes.</p>

<p>Don’t utterly forsake me.</p>

<p>BET</p>

<p><a id="c119_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> How can a young man keep his way pure?</p>

<p>By living according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With my whole heart, I have sought you.</p>

<p>Don’t let me wander from your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have hidden your word in my heart,</p>

<p>that I might not sin against you.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed are you, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Teach me your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With my lips,</p>

<p>I have declared all the ordinances of your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies,</p>

<p>as much as in all riches.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will meditate on your precepts,</p>

<p>and consider your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will delight myself in your statutes.</p>

<p>I will not forget your word.</p>

<p>GIMEL</p>

<p><a id="c119_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Do good to your servant.</p>

<p>I will live and I will obey your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Open my eyes,</p>

<p>that I may see wondrous things out of your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I am a stranger on the earth.</p>

<p>Don’t hide your commandments from me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My soul is consumed with longing for your ordinances at all times.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You have rebuked the proud who are cursed,</p>

<p>who wander from your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Take reproach and contempt away from me,</p>

<p>for I have kept your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Though princes sit and slander me,</p>

<p>your servant will meditate on your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Indeed your statutes are my delight,</p>

<p>and my counselors.</p>

<p>DALED</p>

<p><a id="c119_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> My soul is laid low in the dust.</p>

<p>Revive me according to your word!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I declared my ways, and you answered me.</p>

<p>Teach me your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Let me understand the teaching of your precepts!</p>

<p>Then I will meditate on your wondrous works.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My soul is weary with sorrow:</p>

<p>strengthen me according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Keep me from the way of deceit.</p>

<p>Grant me your law graciously!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I have chosen the way of truth.</p>

<p>I have set your ordinances before me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> I cling to your statutes, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Don’t let me be disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I run in the path of your commandments,</p>

<p>for you have set my heart free.</p>

<p>HEY</p>

<p><a id="c119_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Teach me, Yahweh, the way of your statutes.</p>

<p>I will keep them to the end.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Give me understanding, and I will keep your law.</p>

<p>Yes, I will obey it with my whole heart.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Direct me in the path of your commandments,</p>

<p>for I delight in them.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Turn my heart toward your statutes,</p>

<p>not toward selfish gain.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Turn my eyes away from looking at worthless things.</p>

<p>Revive me in your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Fulfill your promise to your servant,</p>

<p>that you may be feared.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Take away my disgrace that I dread,</p>

<p>for your ordinances are good.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Behold, I long for your precepts!</p>

<p>Revive me in your righteousness.</p>

<p>WAW</p>

<p><a id="c119_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Let your loving kindness also come to me, Yahweh,</p>

<p>your salvation, according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> So I will have an answer for him who reproaches me,</p>

<p>for I trust in your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Don’t snatch the word of truth out of my mouth,</p>

<p>for I put my hope in your ordinances.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> So I will obey your law continually,</p>

<p>forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> I will walk in liberty,</p>

<p>for I have sought your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> I will also speak of your statutes before kings,</p>

<p>and will not be disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> I will delight myself in your commandments,</p>

<p>because I love them.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> I reach out my hands for your commandments, which I love.</p>

<p>I will meditate on your statutes.</p>

<p>ZAYIN</p>

<p><a id="c119_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Remember your word to your servant,</p>

<p>because you gave me hope.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> This is my comfort in my affliction,</p>

<p>for your word has revived me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> The arrogant mock me excessively,</p>

<p>but I don’t swerve from your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> I remember your ordinances of old, Yahweh,</p>

<p>and have comforted myself.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Indignation has taken hold on me,</p>

<p>because of the wicked who forsake your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Your statutes have been my songs,</p>

<p>in the house where I live.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> I have remembered your name, Yahweh, in the night,</p>

<p>and I obey your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> This is my way,</p>

<p>that I keep your precepts.</p>

<p>CHET</p>

<p><a id="c119_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Yahweh is my portion.</p>

<p>I promised to obey your words.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> I sought your favor with my whole heart.</p>

<p>Be merciful to me according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> I considered my ways,</p>

<p>and turned my steps to your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> I will hurry, and not delay,</p>

<p>to obey your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> The ropes of the wicked bind me,</p>

<p>but I won’t forget your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> At midnight I will rise to give thanks to you,</p>

<p>because of your righteous ordinances.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> I am a friend of all those who fear you,</p>

<p>of those who observe your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> The earth is full of your loving kindness, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Teach me your statutes.</p>

<p>TET</p>

<p><a id="c119_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Do good to your servant,</p>

<p>according to your word, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> Teach me good judgment and knowledge,</p>

<p>for I believe in your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Before I was afflicted, I went astray;</p>

<p>but now I observe your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> You are good, and do good.</p>

<p>Teach me your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> The proud have smeared a lie upon me.</p>

<p>With my whole heart, I will keep your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> Their heart is as callous as the fat,</p>

<p>but I delight in your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> It is good for me that I have been afflicted,</p>

<p>that I may learn your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of pieces of gold and silver.</p>

<p>YUD</p>

<p><a id="c119_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> Your hands have made me and formed me.</p>

<p>Give me understanding, that I may learn your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> Those who fear you will see me and be glad,</p>

<p>because I have put my hope in your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> Yahweh, I know that your judgments are righteous,</p>

<p>that in faithfulness you have afflicted me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> Please let your loving kindness be for my comfort,</p>

<p>according to your word to your servant.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> Let your tender mercies come to me, that I may live;</p>

<p>for your law is my delight.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> Let the proud be disappointed, for they have overthrown me wrongfully.</p>

<p>I will meditate on your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> Let those who fear you turn to me.</p>

<p>They will know your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> Let my heart be blameless toward your decrees,</p>

<p>that I may not be disappointed.</p>

<p>KAF</p>

<p><a id="c119_v81"></a><span class="vn">81</span> My soul faints for your salvation.</p>

<p>I hope in your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v82"></a><span class="vn">82</span> My eyes fail for your word.</p>

<p>I say, “When will you comfort me?”</p>

<p><a id="c119_v83"></a><span class="vn">83</span> For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke.</p>

<p>I don’t forget your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v84"></a><span class="vn">84</span> How many are the days of your servant?</p>

<p>When will you execute judgment on those who persecute me?</p>

<p><a id="c119_v85"></a><span class="vn">85</span> The proud have dug pits for me,</p>

<p>contrary to your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v86"></a><span class="vn">86</span> All of your commandments are faithful.</p>

<p>They persecute me wrongfully.</p>

<p>Help me!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v87"></a><span class="vn">87</span> They had almost wiped me from the earth,</p>

<p>but I didn’t forsake your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v88"></a><span class="vn">88</span> Preserve my life according to your loving kindness,</p>

<p>so I will obey the statutes of your mouth.</p>

<p>LAMED</p>

<p><a id="c119_v89"></a><span class="vn">89</span> Yahweh, your word is settled in heaven forever.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v90"></a><span class="vn">90</span> Your faithfulness is to all generations.</p>

<p>You have established the earth, and it remains.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v91"></a><span class="vn">91</span> Your laws remain to this day,</p>

<p>for all things serve you.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v92"></a><span class="vn">92</span> Unless your law had been my delight,</p>

<p>I would have perished in my affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v93"></a><span class="vn">93</span> I will never forget your precepts,</p>

<p>for with them, you have revived me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v94"></a><span class="vn">94</span> I am yours.</p>

<p>Save me, for I have sought your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v95"></a><span class="vn">95</span> The wicked have waited for me, to destroy me.</p>

<p>I will consider your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v96"></a><span class="vn">96</span> I have seen a limit to all perfection,</p>

<p>but your commands are boundless.</p>

<p>MEM</p>

<p><a id="c119_v97"></a><span class="vn">97</span> How I love your law!</p>

<p>It is my meditation all day.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v98"></a><span class="vn">98</span> Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies,</p>

<p>for your commandments are always with me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v99"></a><span class="vn">99</span> I have more understanding than all my teachers,</p>

<p>for your testimonies are my meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v100"></a><span class="vn">100</span> I understand more than the aged,</p>

<p>because I have kept your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v101"></a><span class="vn">101</span> I have kept my feet from every evil way,</p>

<p>that I might observe your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v102"></a><span class="vn">102</span> I have not turned aside from your ordinances,</p>

<p>for you have taught me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v103"></a><span class="vn">103</span> How sweet are your promises to my taste,</p>

<p>more than honey to my mouth!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v104"></a><span class="vn">104</span> Through your precepts, I get understanding;</p>

<p>therefore I hate every false way.</p>

<p>NUN</p>

<p><a id="c119_v105"></a><span class="vn">105</span> Your word is a lamp to my feet,</p>

<p>and a light for my path.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v106"></a><span class="vn">106</span> I have sworn, and have confirmed it,</p>

<p>that I will obey your righteous ordinances.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v107"></a><span class="vn">107</span> I am afflicted very much.</p>

<p>Revive me, Yahweh, according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v108"></a><span class="vn">108</span> Accept, I beg you, the willing offerings of my mouth.</p>

<p>Yahweh, teach me your ordinances.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v109"></a><span class="vn">109</span> My soul is continually in my hand,</p>

<p>yet I won’t forget your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v110"></a><span class="vn">110</span> The wicked have laid a snare for me,</p>

<p>yet I haven’t gone astray from your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v111"></a><span class="vn">111</span> I have taken your testimonies as a heritage forever,</p>

<p>for they are the joy of my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v112"></a><span class="vn">112</span> I have set my heart to perform your statutes forever,</p>

<p>even to the end.</p>

<p>SAMEKH</p>

<p><a id="c119_v113"></a><span class="vn">113</span> I hate double-minded men,</p>

<p>but I love your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v114"></a><span class="vn">114</span> You are my hiding place and my shield.</p>

<p>I hope in your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v115"></a><span class="vn">115</span> Depart from me, you evildoers,</p>

<p>that I may keep the commandments of my God.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v116"></a><span class="vn">116</span> Uphold me according to your word, that I may live.</p>

<p>Let me not be ashamed of my hope.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v117"></a><span class="vn">117</span> Hold me up, and I will be safe,</p>

<p>and will have respect for your statutes continually.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v118"></a><span class="vn">118</span> You reject all those who stray from your statutes,</p>

<p>for their deceit is in vain.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v119"></a><span class="vn">119</span> You put away all the wicked of the earth like dross.</p>

<p>Therefore I love your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v120"></a><span class="vn">120</span> My flesh trembles for fear of you.</p>

<p>I am afraid of your judgments.</p>

<p>AYIN</p>

<p><a id="c119_v121"></a><span class="vn">121</span> I have done what is just and righteous.</p>

<p>Don’t leave me to my oppressors.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v122"></a><span class="vn">122</span> Ensure your servant’s well-being.</p>

<p>Don’t let the proud oppress me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v123"></a><span class="vn">123</span> My eyes fail looking for your salvation,</p>

<p>for your righteous word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v124"></a><span class="vn">124</span> Deal with your servant according to your loving kindness.</p>

<p>Teach me your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v125"></a><span class="vn">125</span> I am your servant. Give me understanding,</p>

<p>that I may know your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v126"></a><span class="vn">126</span> It is time to act, Yahweh,</p>

<p>for they break your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v127"></a><span class="vn">127</span> Therefore I love your commandments more than gold,</p>

<p>yes, more than pure gold.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v128"></a><span class="vn">128</span> Therefore I consider all of your precepts to be right.</p>

<p>I hate every false way.</p>

<p>PEY</p>

<p><a id="c119_v129"></a><span class="vn">129</span> Your testimonies are wonderful,</p>

<p>therefore my soul keeps them.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v130"></a><span class="vn">130</span> The entrance of your words gives light.</p>

<p>It gives understanding to the simple.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v131"></a><span class="vn">131</span> I opened my mouth wide and panted,</p>

<p>for I longed for your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v132"></a><span class="vn">132</span> Turn to me, and have mercy on me,</p>

<p>as you always do to those who love your name.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v133"></a><span class="vn">133</span> Establish my footsteps in your word.</p>

<p>Don’t let any iniquity have dominion over me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v134"></a><span class="vn">134</span> Redeem me from the oppression of man,</p>

<p>so I will observe your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v135"></a><span class="vn">135</span> Make your face shine on your servant.</p>

<p>Teach me your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v136"></a><span class="vn">136</span> Streams of tears run down my eyes,</p>

<p>because they don’t observe your law.</p>

<p>TZADI</p>

<p><a id="c119_v137"></a><span class="vn">137</span> You are righteous, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Your judgments are upright.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v138"></a><span class="vn">138</span> You have commanded your statutes in righteousness.</p>

<p>They are fully trustworthy.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v139"></a><span class="vn">139</span> My zeal wears me out,</p>

<p>because my enemies ignore your words.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v140"></a><span class="vn">140</span> Your promises have been thoroughly tested,</p>

<p>and your servant loves them.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v141"></a><span class="vn">141</span> I am small and despised.</p>

<p>I don’t forget your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v142"></a><span class="vn">142</span> Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness.</p>

<p>Your law is truth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v143"></a><span class="vn">143</span> Trouble and anguish have taken hold of me.</p>

<p>Your commandments are my delight.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v144"></a><span class="vn">144</span> Your testimonies are righteous forever.</p>

<p>Give me understanding, that I may live.</p>

<p>KUF</p>

<p><a id="c119_v145"></a><span class="vn">145</span> I have called with my whole heart.</p>

<p>Answer me, Yahweh!</p>

<p>I will keep your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v146"></a><span class="vn">146</span> I have called to you. Save me!</p>

<p>I will obey your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v147"></a><span class="vn">147</span> I rise before dawn and cry for help.</p>

<p>I put my hope in your words.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v148"></a><span class="vn">148</span> My eyes stay open through the night watches,</p>

<p>that I might meditate on your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v149"></a><span class="vn">149</span> Hear my voice according to your loving kindness.</p>

<p>Revive me, Yahweh, according to your ordinances.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v150"></a><span class="vn">150</span> They draw near who follow after wickedness.</p>

<p>They are far from your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v151"></a><span class="vn">151</span> You are near, Yahweh.</p>

<p>All your commandments are truth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v152"></a><span class="vn">152</span> Of old I have known from your testimonies,</p>

<p>that you have founded them forever.</p>

<p>RESH</p>

<p><a id="c119_v153"></a><span class="vn">153</span> Consider my affliction, and deliver me,</p>

<p>for I don’t forget your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v154"></a><span class="vn">154</span> Plead my cause, and redeem me!</p>

<p>Revive me according to your promise.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v155"></a><span class="vn">155</span> Salvation is far from the wicked,</p>

<p>for they don’t seek your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v156"></a><span class="vn">156</span> Great are your tender mercies, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Revive me according to your ordinances.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v157"></a><span class="vn">157</span> Many are my persecutors and my adversaries.</p>

<p>I haven’t swerved from your testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v158"></a><span class="vn">158</span> I look at the faithless with loathing,</p>

<p>because they don’t observe your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v159"></a><span class="vn">159</span> Consider how I love your precepts.</p>

<p>Revive me, Yahweh, according to your loving kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v160"></a><span class="vn">160</span> All of your words are truth.</p>

<p>Every one of your righteous ordinances endures forever.</p>

<p>SIN AND SHIN</p>

<p><a id="c119_v161"></a><span class="vn">161</span> Princes have persecuted me without a cause,</p>

<p>but my heart stands in awe of your words.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v162"></a><span class="vn">162</span> I rejoice at your word,</p>

<p>as one who finds great plunder.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v163"></a><span class="vn">163</span> I hate and abhor falsehood.</p>

<p>I love your law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v164"></a><span class="vn">164</span> Seven times a day, I praise you,</p>

<p>because of your righteous ordinances.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v165"></a><span class="vn">165</span> Those who love your law have great peace.</p>

<p>Nothing causes them to stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v166"></a><span class="vn">166</span> I have hoped for your salvation, Yahweh.</p>

<p>I have done your commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v167"></a><span class="vn">167</span> My soul has observed your testimonies.</p>

<p>I love them exceedingly.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v168"></a><span class="vn">168</span> I have obeyed your precepts and your testimonies,</p>

<p>for all my ways are before you.</p>

<p>TAV</p>

<p><a id="c119_v169"></a><span class="vn">169</span> Let my cry come before you, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Give me understanding according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v170"></a><span class="vn">170</span> Let my supplication come before you.</p>

<p>Deliver me according to your word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v171"></a><span class="vn">171</span> Let my lips utter praise,</p>

<p>for you teach me your statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v172"></a><span class="vn">172</span> Let my tongue sing of your word,</p>

<p>for all your commandments are righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v173"></a><span class="vn">173</span> Let your hand be ready to help me,</p>

<p>for I have chosen your precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v174"></a><span class="vn">174</span> I have longed for your salvation, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Your law is my delight.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v175"></a><span class="vn">175</span> Let my soul live, that I may praise you.</p>

<p>Let your ordinances help me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v176"></a><span class="vn">176</span> I have gone astray like a lost sheep.</p>

<p>Seek your servant, for I don’t forget your commandments.</p>

</body>
</html>