<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 105</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 105</h2>

<p><a id="c105_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give thanks to Yahweh! Call on his name!</p>

<p>Make his doings known among the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing to him, sing praises to him!</p>

<p>Tell of all his marvelous works.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Glory in his holy name.</p>

<p>Let the heart of those who seek Yahweh rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Seek Yahweh and his strength.</p>

<p>Seek his face forever more.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Remember his marvelous works that he has done;</p>

<p>his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> you offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Abraham, his servant,</p>

<p>you children of Jacob, his chosen ones.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He is Yahweh, our God.</p>

<p>His judgments are in all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He has remembered his covenant forever,</p>

<p>the word which he commanded to a thousand generations,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> the covenant which he made with Abraham,</p>

<p>his oath to Isaac,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and confirmed the same to Jacob for a statute;</p>

<p>to Israel for an everlasting covenant,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan,</p>

<p>the lot of your inheritance”;</p>

<p><a id="c105_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> when they were but a few men in number,</p>

<p>yes, very few, and foreigners in it.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They went about from nation to nation,</p>

<p>from one kingdom to another people.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He allowed no one to do them wrong.</p>

<p>Yes, he reproved kings for their sakes,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “Don’t touch my anointed ones!</p>

<p>Do my prophets no harm!”</p>

<p><a id="c105_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He called for a famine on the land.</p>

<p>He destroyed the food supplies.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He sent a man before them.</p>

<p>Joseph was sold for a slave.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They bruised his feet with shackles.</p>

<p>His neck was locked in irons,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> until the time that his word happened,</p>

<p>and Yahweh’s word proved him true.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The king sent and freed him;</p>

<p>even the ruler of peoples, and let him go free.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He made him lord of his house,</p>

<p>and ruler of all of his possessions;</p>

<p><a id="c105_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> to discipline his princes at his pleasure,</p>

<p>and to teach his elders wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Israel also came into Egypt.</p>

<p>Jacob lived in the land of Ham.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He increased his people greatly,</p>

<p>and made them stronger than their adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He turned their heart to hate his people,</p>

<p>to conspire against his servants.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He sent Moses, his servant,</p>

<p>and Aaron, whom he had chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They performed miracles among them,</p>

<p>and wonders in the land of Ham.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He sent darkness, and made it dark.</p>

<p>They didn’t rebel against his words.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He turned their waters into blood,</p>

<p>and killed their fish.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Their land swarmed with frogs,</p>

<p>even in the rooms of their kings.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He spoke, and swarms of flies came,</p>

<p>and lice in all their borders.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He gave them hail for rain,</p>

<p>with lightning in their land.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He struck their vines and also their fig trees,</p>

<p>and shattered the trees of their country.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He spoke, and the locusts came,</p>

<p>and the grasshoppers, without number,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> ate up every plant in their land;</p>

<p>and ate up the fruit of their ground.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He struck also all the firstborn in their land,</p>

<p>the first fruits of all their manhood.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> He brought them out with silver and gold.</p>

<p>There was not one feeble person among his tribes.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Egypt was glad when they departed,</p>

<p>for the fear of them had fallen on them.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He spread a cloud for a covering,</p>

<p>fire to give light in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> They asked, and he brought quails,</p>

<p>and satisfied them with the bread of the sky.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He opened the rock, and waters gushed out.</p>

<p>They ran as a river in the dry places.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> For he remembered his holy word,</p>

<p>and Abraham, his servant.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He brought his people out with joy,</p>

<p>his chosen with singing.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> He gave them the lands of the nations.</p>

<p>They took the labor of the peoples in possession,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> that they might keep his statutes,</p>

<p>and observe his laws.</p>

<p>Praise Yah!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>