<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 139</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 139</h2>

<p><a id="c139_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh, you have searched me,</p>

<p>and you know me.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You know my sitting down and my rising up.</p>

<p>You perceive my thoughts from afar.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You search out my path and my lying down,</p>

<p>and are acquainted with all my ways.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For there is not a word on my tongue,</p>

<p>but, behold, Yahweh, you know it altogether.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You hem me in behind and before.</p>

<p>You laid your hand on me.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This knowledge is beyond me.</p>

<p>It’s lofty.</p>

<p>I can’t attain it.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Where could I go from your Spirit?</p>

<p>Or where could I flee from your presence?</p>

<p><a id="c139_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If I ascend up into heaven, you are there.</p>

<p>If I make my bed in Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> behold, you are there!</p>

<p><a id="c139_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If I take the wings of the dawn,</p>

<p>and settle in the uttermost parts of the sea;</p>

<p><a id="c139_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Even there your hand will lead me,</p>

<p>and your right hand will hold me.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If I say, “Surely the darkness will overwhelm me;</p>

<p>the light around me will be night”;</p>

<p><a id="c139_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> even the darkness doesn’t hide from you,</p>

<p>but the night shines as the day.</p>

<p>The darkness is like light to you.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you formed my inmost being.</p>

<p>You knit me together in my mother’s womb.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will give thanks to you,</p>

<p>for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.</p>

<p>Your works are wonderful.</p>

<p>My soul knows that very well.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My frame wasn’t hidden from you,</p>

<p>when I was made in secret,</p>

<p>woven together in the depths of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Your eyes saw my body.</p>

<p>In your book they were all written,</p>

<p>the days that were ordained for me,</p>

<p>when as yet there were none of them.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How precious to me are your thoughts, God!</p>

<p>How vast is their sum!</p>

<p><a id="c139_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand.</p>

<p>When I wake up, I am still with you.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If only you, God, would kill the wicked.</p>

<p>Get away from me, you bloodthirsty men!</p>

<p><a id="c139_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For they speak against you wickedly.</p>

<p>Your enemies take your name in vain.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yahweh, don’t I hate those who hate you?</p>

<p>Am I not grieved with those who rise up against you?</p>

<p><a id="c139_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I hate them with perfect hatred.</p>

<p>They have become my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Search me, God, and know my heart.</p>

<p>Try me, and know my thoughts.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> See if there is any wicked way in me,</p>

<p>and lead me in the everlasting way.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>