<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 135</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 135</h2>

<p><a id="c135_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise Yah!</p>

<p>Praise Yahweh’s name!</p>

<p>Praise him, you servants of Yahweh,</p>

<p><a id="c135_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> you who stand in Yahweh’s house,</p>

<p>in the courts of our God’s house.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise Yah, for Yahweh is good.</p>

<p>Sing praises to his name, for that is pleasant.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Yah has chosen Jacob for himself;</p>

<p>Israel for his own possession.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I know that Yahweh is great,</p>

<p>that our Lord is above all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whatever Yahweh pleased, that he has done,</p>

<p>in heaven and in earth, in the seas and in all deeps;</p>

<p><a id="c135_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> who causes the clouds to rise from the ends of the earth;</p>

<p>who makes lightnings with the rain;</p>

<p>who brings the wind out of his treasuries;</p>

<p><a id="c135_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who struck the firstborn of Egypt,</p>

<p>both of man and animal;</p>

<p><a id="c135_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who sent signs and wonders into the middle of you, Egypt,</p>

<p>on Pharaoh, and on all his servants;</p>

<p><a id="c135_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> who struck many nations,</p>

<p>and killed mighty kings,</p>

<p><a id="c135_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sihon king of the Amorites,</p>

<p>Og king of Bashan,</p>

<p>and all the kingdoms of Canaan,</p>

<p><a id="c135_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and gave their land for a heritage,</p>

<p>a heritage to Israel, his people.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your name, Yahweh, endures forever;</p>

<p>your renown, Yahweh, throughout all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Yahweh will judge his people,</p>

<p>and have compassion on his servants.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The idols of the nations are silver and gold,</p>

<p>the work of men’s hands.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They have mouths, but they can’t speak.</p>

<p>They have eyes, but they can’t see.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They have ears, but they can’t hear;</p>

<p>neither is there any breath in their mouths.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Those who make them will be like them;</p>

<p>yes, everyone who trusts in them.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> House of Israel, praise Yahweh!</p>

<p>House of Aaron, praise Yahweh!</p>

<p><a id="c135_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> House of Levi, praise Yahweh!</p>

<p>You who fear Yahweh, praise Yahweh!</p>

<p><a id="c135_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Blessed be Yahweh from Zion,</p>

<p>Who dwells at Jerusalem.</p>

<p>Praise Yah!</p>

</body>
</html>