<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 141</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 141</h2>

<p><a id="c141_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh, I have called on you.</p>

<p>Come to me quickly!</p>

<p>Listen to my voice when I call to you.</p>

<p><a id="c141_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my prayer be set before you like incense;</p>

<p>the lifting up of my hands like the evening sacrifice.</p>

<p><a id="c141_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Set a watch, Yahweh, before my mouth.</p>

<p>Keep the door of my lips.</p>

<p><a id="c141_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Don’t incline my heart to any evil thing,</p>

<p>to practice deeds of wickedness with men who work iniquity.</p>

<p>Don’t let me eat of their delicacies.</p>

<p><a id="c141_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let the righteous strike me, it is kindness;</p>

<p>let him reprove me, it is like oil on the head;</p>

<p>don’t let my head refuse it;</p>

<p>Yet my prayer is always against evil deeds.</p>

<p><a id="c141_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Their judges are thrown down by the sides of the rock.</p>

<p>They will hear my words, for they are well spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c141_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “As when one plows and breaks up the earth,</p>

<p>our bones are scattered at the mouth of Sheol.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c141_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For my eyes are on you, Yahweh, the Lord.</p>

<p>In you, I take refuge.</p>

<p>Don’t leave my soul destitute.</p>

<p><a id="c141_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Keep me from the snare which they have laid for me,</p>

<p>from the traps of the workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c141_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let the wicked fall together into their own nets,</p>

<p>while I pass by.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>