<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 140</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 140</h2>

<p><a id="c140_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Deliver me, Yahweh, from the evil man.</p>

<p>Preserve me from the violent man;</p>

<p><a id="c140_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> those who devise mischief in their hearts.</p>

<p>They continually gather themselves together for war.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent.</p>

<p>Viper’s poison is under their lips. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yahweh, keep me from the hands of the wicked.</p>

<p>Preserve me from the violent men who have determined to trip my feet.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The proud have hidden a snare for me,</p>

<p>they have spread the cords of a net by the path.</p>

<p>They have set traps for me. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I said to Yahweh, “You are my God.”</p>

<p>Listen to the cry of my petitions, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh, the Lord, the strength of my salvation,</p>

<p>you have covered my head in the day of battle.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh, don’t grant the desires of the wicked.</p>

<p>Don’t let their evil plans succeed, or they will become proud. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As for the head of those who surround me,</p>

<p>let the mischief of their own lips cover them.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let burning coals fall on them.</p>

<p>Let them be thrown into the fire,</p>

<p>into miry pits, from where they never rise.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> An evil speaker won’t be established in the earth.</p>

<p>Evil will hunt the violent man to overthrow him.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I know that Yahweh will maintain the cause of the afflicted,</p>

<p>and justice for the needy.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely the righteous will give thanks to your name.</p>

<p>The upright will dwell in your presence.</p>

</body>
</html>