<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 144</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 144</h2>

<p><a id="c144_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed be Yahweh, my rock,</p>

<p>who teaches my hands to war,</p>

<p>and my fingers to battle:</p>

<p><a id="c144_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> my loving kindness, my fortress,</p>

<p>my high tower, my deliverer,</p>

<p>my shield, and he in whom I take refuge;</p>

<p>who subdues my people under me.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh, what is man, that you care for him?</p>

<p>Or the son of man, that you think of him?</p>

<p><a id="c144_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Man is like a breath.</p>

<p>His days are like a shadow that passes away.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Part your heavens, Yahweh, and come down.</p>

<p>Touch the mountains, and they will smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Throw out lightning, and scatter them.</p>

<p>Send out your arrows, and rout them.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Stretch out your hand from above,</p>

<p>rescue me, and deliver me out of great waters,</p>

<p>out of the hands of foreigners;</p>

<p><a id="c144_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> whose mouths speak deceit,</p>

<p>Whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will sing a new song to you, God.</p>

<p>On a ten-stringed lyre, I will sing praises to you.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You are he who gives salvation to kings,</p>

<p>who rescues David, his servant, from the deadly sword.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rescue me, and deliver me out of the hands of foreigners,</p>

<p>whose mouths speak deceit,</p>

<p>whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then our sons will be like well-nurtured plants,</p>

<p>our daughters like pillars carved to adorn a palace.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Our barns are full, filled with all kinds of provision.</p>

<p>Our sheep produce thousands and ten thousands in our fields.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Our oxen will pull heavy loads.</p>

<p>There is no breaking in, and no going away,</p>

<p>and no outcry in our streets.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Happy are the people who are in such a situation.</p>

<p>Happy are the people whose God is Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>