<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 118</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 118</h2>

<p><a id="c118_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,</p>

<p>for his loving kindness endures forever.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let Israel now say</p>

<p>that his loving kindness endures forever.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the house of Aaron now say</p>

<p>that his loving kindness endures forever.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now let those who fear Yahweh say</p>

<p>that his loving kindness endures forever.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Out of my distress, I called on Yah.</p>

<p>Yah answered me with freedom.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh is on my side. I will not be afraid.</p>

<p>What can man do to me?</p>

<p><a id="c118_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh is on my side among those who help me.</p>

<p>Therefore I will look in triumph at those who hate me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It is better to take refuge in Yahweh,</p>

<p>than to put confidence in man.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is better to take refuge in Yahweh,</p>

<p>than to put confidence in princes.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All the nations surrounded me,</p>

<p>but in Yahweh’s name, I cut them off.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me.</p>

<p>In Yahweh’s name I indeed cut them off.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They surrounded me like bees.</p>

<p>They are quenched like the burning thorns.</p>

<p>In Yahweh’s name I cut them off.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You pushed me back hard, to make me fall,</p>

<p>but Yahweh helped me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yah is my strength and song.</p>

<p>He has become my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous.</p>

<p>“The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The right hand of Yahweh is exalted!</p>

<p>The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly!”</p>

<p><a id="c118_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will not die, but live,</p>

<p>and declare Yah’s works.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yah has punished me severely,</p>

<p>but he has not given me over to death.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Open to me the gates of righteousness.</p>

<p>I will enter into them.</p>

<p>I will give thanks to Yah.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This is the gate of Yahweh;</p>

<p>the righteous will enter into it.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I will give thanks to you, for you have answered me,</p>

<p>and have become my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The stone which the builders rejected</p>

<p>has become the cornerstone.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c118_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This is Yahweh’s doing.</p>

<p>It is marvelous in our eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> This is the day that Yahweh has made.</p>

<p>We will rejoice and be glad in it!</p>

<p><a id="c118_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Save us now, we beg you, Yahweh!</p>

<p>Yahweh, we beg you, send prosperity now.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Blessed is he who comes in Yahweh’s name!</p>

<p>We have blessed you out of Yahweh’s house.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Yahweh is God, and he has given us light.</p>

<p>Bind the sacrifice with cords, even to the horns of the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You are my God, and I will give thanks to you.</p>

<p>You are my God, I will exalt you.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,</p>

<p>for his loving kindness endures forever.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Literally, head of the corner</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>