<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 97</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 97</h2>

<p><a id="c97_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh reigns!</p>

<p>Let the earth rejoice!</p>

<p>Let the multitude of islands be glad!</p>

<p><a id="c97_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Clouds and darkness are around him.</p>

<p>Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A fire goes before him,</p>

<p>and burns up his adversaries on every side.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His lightning lights up the world.</p>

<p>The earth sees, and trembles.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The mountains melt like wax at the presence of Yahweh,</p>

<p>at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The heavens declare his righteousness.</p>

<p>All the peoples have seen his glory.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let all them be shamed who serve engraved images,</p>

<p>who boast in their idols.</p>

<p>Worship him, all you gods!<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c97_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Zion heard and was glad.</p>

<p>The daughters of Judah rejoiced,</p>

<p>because of your judgments, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For you, Yahweh, are most high above all the earth.</p>

<p>You are exalted far above all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You who love Yahweh, hate evil.</p>

<p>He preserves the souls of his saints.</p>

<p>He delivers them out of the hand of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Light is sown for the righteous,</p>

<p>and gladness for the upright in heart.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Be glad in Yahweh, you righteous people!</p>

<p>Give thanks to his holy Name.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>LXX reads “angels” instead of “gods”.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>