<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> An inner sanctuary is within my heart about the disobedience of the wicked:</p>

<p>“There is no fear of God before his eyes.”</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he flatters himself in his own eyes,</p>

<p>too much to detect and hate his sin.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit.</p>

<p>He has ceased to be wise and to do good.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He plots iniquity on his bed.</p>

<p>He sets himself in a way that is not good.</p>

<p>He doesn’t abhor evil.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Your loving kindness, Yahweh, is in the heavens.</p>

<p>Your faithfulness reaches to the skies.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your righteousness is like the mountains of God.</p>

<p>Your judgments are like a great deep.</p>

<p>Yahweh, you preserve man and animal.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> How precious is your loving kindness, God!</p>

<p>The children of men take refuge under the shadow of your wings.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They shall be abundantly satisfied with the abundance of your house.</p>

<p>You will make them drink of the river of your pleasures.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For with you is the spring of life.</p>

<p>In your light shall we see light.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Oh continue your loving kindness to those who know you,</p>

<p>your righteousness to the upright in heart.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Don’t let the foot of pride come against me.</p>

<p>Don’t let the hand of the wicked drive me away.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There the workers of iniquity are fallen.</p>

<p>They are thrust down, and shall not be able to rise.</p>

</body>
</html>