<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will extol you, Yahweh, for you have raised me up,</p>

<p>and have not made my foes to rejoice over me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh my God, I cried to you,</p>

<p>and you have healed me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh, you have brought up my soul from Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>You have kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sing praise to Yahweh, you saints of his.</p>

<p>Give thanks to his holy name.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For his anger is but for a moment.</p>

<p>His favor is for a lifetime.</p>

<p>Weeping may stay for the night,</p>

<p>but joy comes in the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As for me, I said in my prosperity,</p>

<p>“I shall never be moved.”</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You, Yahweh, when you favored me, made my mountain stand strong;</p>

<p>but when you hid your face, I was troubled.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I cried to you, Yahweh.</p>

<p>I made supplication to the Lord:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “What profit is there in my destruction, if I go down to the pit?</p>

<p>Shall the dust praise you?</p>

<p>Shall it declare your truth?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear, Yahweh, and have mercy on me.</p>

<p>Yahweh, be my helper.”</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You have turned my mourning into dancing for me.</p>

<p>You have removed my sackcloth, and clothed me with gladness,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To the end that my heart may sing praise to you, and not be silent.</p>

<p>Yahweh my God, I will give thanks to you forever!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>