<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 102</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 102</h2>

<p><a id="c102_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear my prayer, Yahweh!</p>

<p>Let my cry come to you.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Don’t hide your face from me in the day of my distress.</p>

<p>Turn your ear to me.</p>

<p>Answer me quickly in the day when I call.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my days consume away like smoke.</p>

<p>My bones are burned as a torch.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart is blighted like grass, and withered,</p>

<p>for I forget to eat my bread.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By reason of the voice of my groaning,</p>

<p>my bones stick to my skin.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I am like a pelican of the wilderness.</p>

<p>I have become as an owl of the waste places.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I watch, and have become like a sparrow that is alone on the housetop.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My enemies reproach me all day.</p>

<p>Those who are mad at me use my name as a curse.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I have eaten ashes like bread,</p>

<p>and mixed my drink with tears,</p>

<p><a id="c102_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because of your indignation and your wrath,</p>

<p>for you have taken me up, and thrown me away.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days are like a long shadow.</p>

<p>I have withered like grass.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But you, Yahweh, will remain forever;</p>

<p>your renown endures to all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You will arise and have mercy on Zion;</p>

<p>for it is time to have pity on her.</p>

<p>Yes, the set time has come.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For your servants take pleasure in her stones,</p>

<p>and have pity on her dust.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So the nations will fear Yahweh’s name;</p>

<p>all the kings of the earth your glory.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For Yahweh has built up Zion.</p>

<p>He has appeared in his glory.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He has responded to the prayer of the destitute,</p>

<p>and has not despised their prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> This will be written for the generation to come.</p>

<p>A people which will be created will praise Yah.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary.</p>

<p>From heaven, Yahweh saw the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c102_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> to hear the groans of the prisoner;</p>

<p>to free those who are condemned to death;</p>

<p><a id="c102_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that men may declare Yahweh’s name in Zion,</p>

<p>and his praise in Jerusalem;</p>

<p><a id="c102_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> when the peoples are gathered together,</p>

<p>the kingdoms, to serve Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He weakened my strength along the course.</p>

<p>He shortened my days.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I said, “My God, don’t take me away in the middle of my days.</p>

<p>Your years are throughout all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Of old, you laid the foundation of the earth.</p>

<p>The heavens are the work of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They will perish, but you will endure.</p>

<p>Yes, all of them will wear out like a garment.</p>

<p>You will change them like a cloak, and they will be changed.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But you are the same.</p>

<p>Your years will have no end.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The children of your servants will continue.</p>

<p>Their offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> will be established before you.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>