<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 84</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 84</h2>

<p><a id="c84_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> How lovely are your dwellings,</p>

<p>Yahweh of Armies!</p>

<p><a id="c84_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul longs, and even faints for the courts of Yahweh.</p>

<p>My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yes, the sparrow has found a home,</p>

<p>and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may have her young,</p>

<p>near your altars, Yahweh of Armies, my King, and my God.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed are those who dwell in your house.</p>

<p>They are always praising you. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Blessed are those whose strength is in you;</p>

<p>who have set their hearts on a pilgrimage.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Passing through the valley of Weeping, they make it a place of springs.</p>

<p>Yes, the autumn rain covers it with blessings.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They go from strength to strength.</p>

<p>Everyone of them appears before God in Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh, God of Armies, hear my prayer.</p>

<p>Listen, God of Jacob. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, God our shield,</p>

<p>look at the face of your anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For a day in your courts is better than a thousand.</p>

<p>I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God,</p>

<p>than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For Yahweh God is a sun and a shield.</p>

<p>Yahweh will give grace and glory.</p>

<p>He withholds no good thing from those who walk blamelessly.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh of Armies,</p>

<p>blessed is the man who trusts in you.</p>

</body>
</html>