<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 109</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 109</h2>

<p><a id="c109_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God of my praise, don’t remain silent,</p>

<p><a id="c109_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for they have opened the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit against me.</p>

<p>They have spoken to me with a lying tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have also surrounded me with words of hatred,</p>

<p>and fought against me without a cause.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In return for my love, they are my adversaries;</p>

<p>but I am in prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have rewarded me evil for good,</p>

<p>and hatred for my love.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Set a wicked man over him.</p>

<p>Let an adversary stand at his right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When he is judged, let him come out guilty.</p>

<p>Let his prayer be turned into sin.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let his days be few.</p>

<p>Let another take his office.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let his children be fatherless,</p>

<p>and his wife a widow.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let his children be wandering beggars.</p>

<p>Let them be sought from their ruins.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the creditor seize all that he has.</p>

<p>Let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let there be no one to extend kindness to him,</p>

<p>neither let there be anyone to have pity on his fatherless children.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let his posterity be cut off.</p>

<p>In the generation following let their name be blotted out.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by Yahweh.</p>

<p>Don’t let the sin of his mother be blotted out.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them be before Yahweh continually,</p>

<p>that he may cut off their memory from the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c109_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> because he didn’t remember to show kindness,</p>

<p>but persecuted the poor and needy man,</p>

<p>the broken in heart, to kill them.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yes, he loved cursing, and it came to him.</p>

<p>He didn’t delight in blessing, and it was far from him.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment.</p>

<p>It came into his inward parts like water,</p>

<p>like oil into his bones.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let it be to him as the clothing with which he covers himself,</p>

<p>for the belt that is always around him.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This is the reward of my adversaries from Yahweh,</p>

<p>of those who speak evil against my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But deal with me, Yahweh the Lord,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> for your name’s sake,</p>

<p>because your loving kindness is good, deliver me;</p>

<p><a id="c109_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for I am poor and needy.</p>

<p>My heart is wounded within me.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I fade away like an evening shadow.</p>

<p>I am shaken off like a locust.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My knees are weak through fasting.</p>

<p>My body is thin and lacks fat.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have also become a reproach to them.</p>

<p>When they see me, they shake their head.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Help me, Yahweh, my God.</p>

<p>Save me according to your loving kindness;</p>

<p><a id="c109_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> that they may know that this is your hand;</p>

<p>that you, Yahweh, have done it.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They may curse, but you bless.</p>

<p>When they arise, they will be shamed,</p>

<p>but your servant shall rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Let my adversaries be clothed with dishonor.</p>

<p>Let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will give great thanks to Yahweh with my mouth.</p>

<p>Yes, I will praise him among the multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For he will stand at the right hand of the needy,</p>

<p>to save him from those who judge his soul.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>