<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 96</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 96</h2>

<p><a id="c96_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Sing to Yahweh a new song!</p>

<p>Sing to Yahweh, all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing to Yahweh!</p>

<p>Bless his name!</p>

<p>Proclaim his salvation from day to day!</p>

<p><a id="c96_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Declare his glory among the nations,</p>

<p>his marvelous works among all the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised!</p>

<p>He is to be feared above all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For all the gods of the peoples are idols,</p>

<p>but Yahweh made the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Honor and majesty are before him.</p>

<p>Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ascribe to Yahweh, you families of nations,</p>

<p>ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ascribe to Yahweh the glory due to his name.</p>

<p>Bring an offering, and come into his courts.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Worship Yahweh in holy array.</p>

<p>Tremble before him, all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say among the nations, “Yahweh reigns.”</p>

<p>The world is also established.</p>

<p>It can’t be moved.</p>

<p>He will judge the peoples with equity.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice.</p>

<p>Let the sea roar, and its fullness!</p>

<p><a id="c96_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let the field and all that is in it exult!</p>

<p>Then all the trees of the woods shall sing for joy</p>

<p><a id="c96_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> before Yahweh; for he comes,</p>

<p>for he comes to judge the earth.</p>

<p>He will judge the world with righteousness,</p>

<p>the peoples with his truth.</p>

</body>
</html>