<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 59</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 59</h2>

<p><a id="c59_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Deliver me from my enemies, my God.</p>

<p>Set me on high from those who rise up against me.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Deliver me from the workers of iniquity.</p>

<p>Save me from the bloodthirsty men.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, behold, they lie in wait for my soul.</p>

<p>The mighty gather themselves together against me,</p>

<p>not for my disobedience, nor for my sin, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have done no wrong, yet they are ready to attack me.</p>

<p>Rise up, behold, and help me!</p>

<p><a id="c59_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You, Yahweh God of Armies, the God of Israel,</p>

<p>rouse yourself to punish the nations.</p>

<p>Show no mercy to the wicked traitors. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They return at evening, howling like dogs,</p>

<p>and prowl around the city.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, they spew with their mouth.</p>

<p>Swords are in their lips,</p>

<p>“For”, they say, “who hears us?”</p>

<p><a id="c59_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But you, Yahweh, laugh at them.</p>

<p>You scoff at all the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Oh, my Strength, I watch for you,</p>

<p>for God is my high tower.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My God will go before me with his loving kindness.</p>

<p>God will let me look at my enemies in triumph.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Don’t kill them, or my people may forget.</p>

<p>Scatter them by your power, and bring them down, Lord our shield.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the sin of their mouth, and the words of their lips,</p>

<p>let them be caught in their pride,</p>

<p>for the curses and lies which they utter.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Consume them in wrath.</p>

<p>Consume them, and they will be no more.</p>

<p>Let them know that God rules in Jacob,</p>

<p>to the ends of the earth. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> At evening let them return.</p>

<p>Let them howl like a dog, and go around the city.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They shall wander up and down for food,</p>

<p>and wait all night if they aren’t satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But I will sing of your strength.</p>

<p>Yes, I will sing aloud of your loving kindness in the morning.</p>

<p>For you have been my high tower,</p>

<p>a refuge in the day of my distress.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> To you, my strength, I will sing praises.</p>

<p>For God is my high tower, the God of my mercy.</p>

</body>
</html>