<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I waited patiently for Yahweh.</p>

<p>He turned to me, and heard my cry.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He brought me up also out of a horrible pit,</p>

<p>out of the miry clay.</p>

<p>He set my feet on a rock,</p>

<p>and gave me a firm place to stand.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God.</p>

<p>Many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed is the man who makes Yahweh his trust,</p>

<p>and doesn’t respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Many, Yahweh, my God, are the wonderful works which you have done,</p>

<p>and your thoughts which are toward us.</p>

<p>They can’t be declared back to you.</p>

<p>If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be counted.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sacrifice and offering you didn’t desire.</p>

<p>You have opened my ears.</p>

<p>You have not required burnt offering and sin offering.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then I said, “Behold, I have come.</p>

<p>It is written about me in the book in the scroll.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I delight to do your will, my God.</p>

<p>Yes, your law is within my heart.”</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have proclaimed glad news of righteousness in the great assembly.</p>

<p>Behold, I will not seal my lips, Yahweh, you know.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart.</p>

<p>I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation.</p>

<p>I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Don’t withhold your tender mercies from me, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For innumerable evils have surrounded me.</p>

<p>My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up.</p>

<p>They are more than the hairs of my head.</p>

<p>My heart has failed me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be pleased, Yahweh, to deliver me.</p>

<p>Hurry to help me, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let them be disappointed and confounded together who seek after my soul to destroy it.</p>

<p>Let them be turned backward and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them be desolate by reason of their shame that tell me, “Aha! Aha!”</p>

<p><a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you.</p>

<p>Let such as love your salvation say continually, “Let Yahweh be exalted!”</p>

<p><a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But I am poor and needy.</p>

<p>May the Lord think about me.</p>

<p>You are my help and my deliverer.</p>

<p>Don’t delay, my God.</p>

</body>
</html>