<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 50</h2>

<p><a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, speaks,</p>

<p>and calls the earth from sunrise to sunset.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty,</p>

<p>God shines out.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Our God comes, and does not keep silent.</p>

<p>A fire devours before him.</p>

<p>It is very stormy around him.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He calls to the heavens above,</p>

<p>to the earth, that he may judge his people:</p>

<p><a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Gather my saints together to me,</p>

<p>those who have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.”</p>

<p><a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The heavens shall declare his righteousness,</p>

<p>for God himself is judge. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Hear, my people, and I will speak;</p>

<p>Israel, and I will testify against you.</p>

<p>I am God, your God.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I don’t rebuke you for your sacrifices.</p>

<p>Your burnt offerings are continually before me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have no need for a bull from your stall,</p>

<p>nor male goats from your pens.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For every animal of the forest is mine,</p>

<p>and the livestock on a thousand hills.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I know all the birds of the mountains.</p>

<p>The wild animals of the field are mine.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If I were hungry, I would not tell you,</p>

<p>for the world is mine, and all that is in it.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Will I eat the meat of bulls,</p>

<p>or drink the blood of goats?</p>

<p><a id="c50_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Offer to God the sacrifice of thanksgiving.</p>

<p>Pay your vows to the Most High.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Call on me in the day of trouble.</p>

<p>I will deliver you, and you will honor me.”</p>

<p><a id="c50_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But to the wicked God says,</p>

<p>“What right do you have to declare my statutes,</p>

<p>that you have taken my covenant on your lips,</p>

<p><a id="c50_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> since you hate instruction,</p>

<p>and throw my words behind you?</p>

<p><a id="c50_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When you saw a thief, you consented with him,</p>

<p>and have participated with adulterers.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “You give your mouth to evil.</p>

<p>Your tongue frames deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You sit and speak against your brother.</p>

<p>You slander your own mother’s son.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You have done these things, and I kept silent.</p>

<p>You thought that I was just like you.</p>

<p>I will rebuke you, and accuse you in front of your eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “Now consider this, you who forget God,</p>

<p>lest I tear you into pieces, and there be no one to deliver.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoever offers the sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifies me,</p>

<p>and prepares his way so that I will show God’s salvation to him.”</p>

</body>
</html>