<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 74</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 74</h2>

<p><a id="c74_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God, why have you rejected us forever?</p>

<p>Why does your anger smolder against the sheep of your pasture?</p>

<p><a id="c74_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Remember your congregation, which you purchased of old,</p>

<p>which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your inheritance;</p>

<p>Mount Zion, in which you have lived.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lift up your feet to the perpetual ruins,</p>

<p>all the evil that the enemy has done in the sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Your adversaries have roared in the middle of your assembly.</p>

<p>They have set up their standards as signs.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They behaved like men wielding axes,</p>

<p>cutting through a thicket of trees.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now they break all its carved work down with hatchet and hammers.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have burned your sanctuary to the ground.</p>

<p>They have profaned the dwelling place of your Name.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They said in their heart, “We will crush them completely.”</p>

<p>They have burned up all the places in the land where God was worshiped.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We see no miraculous signs.</p>

<p>There is no longer any prophet,</p>

<p>neither is there among us anyone who knows how long.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> How long, God, shall the adversary reproach?</p>

<p>Shall the enemy blaspheme your name forever?</p>

<p><a id="c74_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why do you draw back your hand, even your right hand?</p>

<p>Take it out of your pocket and consume them!</p>

<p><a id="c74_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yet God is my King of old,</p>

<p>working salvation throughout the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You divided the sea by your strength.</p>

<p>You broke the heads of the sea monsters in the waters.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You broke the heads of Leviathan in pieces.</p>

<p>You gave him as food to people and desert creatures.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You opened up spring and stream.</p>

<p>You dried up mighty rivers.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The day is yours, the night is also yours.</p>

<p>You have prepared the light and the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You have set all the boundaries of the earth.</p>

<p>You have made summer and winter.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Remember this, that the enemy has mocked you, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Foolish people have blasphemed your name.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Don’t deliver the soul of your dove to wild beasts.</p>

<p>Don’t forget the life of your poor forever.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Honor your covenant,</p>

<p>for haunts of violence fill the dark places of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Don’t let the oppressed return ashamed.</p>

<p>Let the poor and needy praise your name.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Arise, God! Plead your own cause.</p>

<p>Remember how the foolish man mocks you all day.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Don’t forget the voice of your adversaries.</p>

<p>The tumult of those who rise up against you ascends continually.</p>

</body>
</html>