<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 73</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 73</h2>

<p><a id="c73_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Surely God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is good to Israel,</p>

<p>to those who are pure in heart.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But as for me, my feet were almost gone.</p>

<p>My steps had nearly slipped.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I was envious of the arrogant,</p>

<p>when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For there are no struggles in their death,</p>

<p>but their strength is firm.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are free from burdens of men,</p>

<p>neither are they plagued like other men.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore pride is like a chain around their neck.</p>

<p>Violence covers them like a garment.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their eyes bulge with fat.</p>

<p>Their minds pass the limits of conceit.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They scoff and speak with malice.</p>

<p>In arrogance, they threaten oppression.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They have set their mouth in the heavens.</p>

<p>Their tongue walks through the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore their people return to them,</p>

<p>and they drink up waters of abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They say, “How does God know?</p>

<p>Is there knowledge in the Most High?”</p>

<p><a id="c73_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, these are the wicked.</p>

<p>Being always at ease, they increase in riches.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely I have cleansed my heart in vain,</p>

<p>and washed my hands in innocence,</p>

<p><a id="c73_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For all day long I have been plagued,</p>

<p>and punished every morning.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I had said, “I will speak thus”;</p>

<p>behold, I would have betrayed the generation of your children.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When I tried to understand this,</p>

<p>it was too painful for me;</p>

<p><a id="c73_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Until I entered God’s sanctuary,</p>

<p>and considered their latter end.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Surely you set them in slippery places.</p>

<p>You throw them down to destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How they are suddenly destroyed!</p>

<p>They are completely swept away with terrors.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> As a dream when one wakes up,</p>

<p>so, Lord,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> when you awake, you will despise their fantasies.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For my soul was grieved.</p>

<p>I was embittered in my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I was so senseless and ignorant.</p>

<p>I was a brute beast before you.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Nevertheless, I am continually with you.</p>

<p>You have held my right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> You will guide me with your counsel,</p>

<p>and afterward receive me to glory.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whom do I have in heaven?</p>

<p>There is no one on earth whom I desire besides you.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> My flesh and my heart fails,</p>

<p>but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For, behold, those who are far from you shall perish.</p>

<p>You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to you.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But it is good for me to come close to God.</p>

<p>I have made the Lord Yahweh<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> my refuge,</p>

<p>that I may tell of all your works.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>