<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 66</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 66</h2>

<p><a id="c66_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Make a joyful shout to God, all the earth!</p>

<p><a id="c66_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing to the glory of his name!</p>

<p>Offer glory and praise!</p>

<p><a id="c66_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Tell God, “How awesome are your deeds!</p>

<p>Through the greatness of your power, your enemies submit themselves to you.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> All the earth will worship you,</p>

<p>and will sing to you;</p>

<p>they will sing to your name.” Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Come, and see God’s deeds—</p>

<p>awesome work on behalf of the children of men.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He turned the sea into dry land.</p>

<p>They went through the river on foot.</p>

<p>There, we rejoiced in him.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He rules by his might forever.</p>

<p>His eyes watch the nations.</p>

<p>Don’t let the rebellious rise up against him. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Praise our God, you peoples!</p>

<p>Make the sound of his praise heard,</p>

<p><a id="c66_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> who preserves our life among the living,</p>

<p>and doesn’t allow our feet to be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For you, God, have tested us.</p>

<p>You have refined us, as silver is refined.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You brought us into prison.</p>

<p>You laid a burden on our backs.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You allowed men to ride over our heads.</p>

<p>We went through fire and through water,</p>

<p>but you brought us to the place of abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will come into your temple with burnt offerings.</p>

<p>I will pay my vows to you, <a id="c66_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> which my lips promised,</p>

<p>and my mouth spoke, when I was in distress.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will offer to you burnt offerings of fat animals,</p>

<p>with the offering of rams,</p>

<p>I will offer bulls with goats. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Come, and hear, all you who fear God.</p>

<p>I will declare what he has done for my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I cried to him with my mouth.</p>

<p>He was extolled with my tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I cherished sin in my heart,</p>

<p>the Lord wouldn’t have listened.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But most certainly, God has listened.</p>

<p>He has heard the voice of my prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Blessed be God, who has not turned away my prayer,</p>

<p>nor his loving kindness from me.</p>

</body>
</html>