<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I love you, Yahweh, my strength.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer;</p>

<p>my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge;</p>

<p>my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I call on Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised;</p>

<p>and I am saved from my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The cords of death surrounded me.</p>

<p>The floods of ungodliness made me afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The cords of Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> were around me.</p>

<p>The snares of death came on me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In my distress I called on Yahweh,</p>

<p>and cried to my God.</p>

<p>He heard my voice out of his temple.</p>

<p>My cry before him came into his ears.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then the earth shook and trembled.</p>

<p>The foundations also of the mountains quaked and were shaken,</p>

<p>because he was angry.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Smoke went out of his nostrils.</p>

<p>Consuming fire came out of his mouth.</p>

<p>Coals were kindled by it.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He bowed the heavens also, and came down.</p>

<p>Thick darkness was under his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He rode on a cherub, and flew.</p>

<p>Yes, he soared on the wings of the wind.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He made darkness his hiding place, his pavilion around him,</p>

<p>darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> At the brightness before him his thick clouds passed,</p>

<p>hailstones and coals of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yahweh also thundered in the sky.</p>

<p>The Most High uttered his voice:</p>

<p>hailstones and coals of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He sent out his arrows, and scattered them;</p>

<p>Yes, great lightning bolts, and routed them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the channels of waters appeared.</p>

<p>The foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, Yahweh,</p>

<p>at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He sent from on high.</p>

<p>He took me.</p>

<p>He drew me out of many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He delivered me from my strong enemy,</p>

<p>from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They came on me in the day of my calamity,</p>

<p>but Yahweh was my support.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He brought me out also into a large place.</p>

<p>He delivered me, because he delighted in me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness.</p>

<p>According to the cleanness of my hands has he recompensed me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For I have kept the ways of Yahweh,</p>

<p>and have not wickedly departed from my God.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For all his ordinances were before me.</p>

<p>I didn’t put away his statutes from me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I was also blameless with him.</p>

<p>I kept myself from my iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness,</p>

<p>according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> With the merciful you will show yourself merciful.</p>

<p>With the perfect man, you will show yourself perfect.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> With the pure, you will show yourself pure.</p>

<p>With the crooked you will show yourself shrewd.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For you will save the afflicted people,</p>

<p>but the haughty eyes you will bring down.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For you will light my lamp, Yahweh.</p>

<p>My God will light up my darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For by you, I advance through a troop.</p>

<p>By my God, I leap over a wall.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> As for God, his way is perfect.</p>

<p>Yahweh’s word is tried.</p>

<p>He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For who is God, except Yahweh?</p>

<p>Who is a rock, besides our God,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> the God who arms me with strength, and makes my way perfect?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He makes my feet like deer’s feet,</p>

<p>and sets me on my high places.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He teaches my hands to war,</p>

<p>so that my arms bend a bow of bronze.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> You have also given me the shield of your salvation.</p>

<p>Your right hand sustains me.</p>

<p>Your gentleness has made me great.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> You have enlarged my steps under me,</p>

<p>My feet have not slipped.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I will pursue my enemies, and overtake them.</p>

<p>Neither will I turn again until they are consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I will strike them through, so that they will not be able to rise.</p>

<p>They shall fall under my feet.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For you have armed me with strength to the battle.</p>

<p>You have subdued under me those who rose up against me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me,</p>

<p>that I might cut off those who hate me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> They cried, but there was no one to save;</p>

<p>even to Yahweh, but he didn’t answer them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Then I beat them small as the dust before the wind.</p>

<p>I cast them out as the mire of the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> You have delivered me from the strivings of the people.</p>

<p>You have made me the head of the nations.</p>

<p>A people whom I have not known shall serve me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> As soon as they hear of me they shall obey me.</p>

<p>The foreigners shall submit themselves to me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The foreigners shall fade away,</p>

<p>and shall come trembling out of their close places.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Yahweh lives; and blessed be my rock.</p>

<p>Exalted be the God of my salvation,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> even the God who executes vengeance for me,</p>

<p>and subdues peoples under me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> He rescues me from my enemies.</p>

<p>Yes, you lift me up above those who rise up against me.</p>

<p>You deliver me from the violent man.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Therefore I will give thanks to you, Yahweh, among the nations,</p>

<p>and will sing praises to your name.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> He gives great deliverance to his king,</p>

<p>and shows loving kindness to his anointed,</p>

<p>to David and to his offspring,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> forever more.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>