<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 77</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 77</h2>

<p><a id="c77_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My cry goes to God!</p>

<p>Indeed, I cry to God for help,</p>

<p>and for him to listen to me.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord.</p>

<p>My hand was stretched out in the night, and didn’t get tired.</p>

<p>My soul refused to be comforted.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I remember God, and I groan.</p>

<p>I complain, and my spirit is overwhelmed. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You hold my eyelids open.</p>

<p>I am so troubled that I can’t speak.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have considered the days of old,</p>

<p>the years of ancient times.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I remember my song in the night.</p>

<p>I consider in my own heart;</p>

<p>my spirit diligently inquires:</p>

<p><a id="c77_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Will the Lord reject us forever?</p>

<p>Will he be favorable no more?</p>

<p><a id="c77_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Has his loving kindness vanished forever?</p>

<p>Does his promise fail for generations?</p>

<p><a id="c77_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Has God forgotten to be gracious?</p>

<p>Has he, in anger, withheld his compassion?” Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then I thought, “I will appeal to this:</p>

<p>the years of the right hand of the Most High.”</p>

<p><a id="c77_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will remember Yah’s deeds;</p>

<p>for I will remember your wonders of old.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will also meditate on all your work,</p>

<p>and consider your doings.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your way, God, is in the sanctuary.</p>

<p>What god is great like God?</p>

<p><a id="c77_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You are the God who does wonders.</p>

<p>You have made your strength known among the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You have redeemed your people with your arm,</p>

<p>the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The waters saw you, God.</p>

<p>The waters saw you, and they writhed.</p>

<p>The depths also convulsed.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The clouds poured out water.</p>

<p>The skies resounded with thunder.</p>

<p>Your arrows also flashed around.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The voice of your thunder was in the whirlwind.</p>

<p>The lightnings lit up the world.</p>

<p>The earth trembled and shook.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Your way was through the sea;</p>

<p>your paths through the great waters.</p>

<p>Your footsteps were not known.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You led your people like a flock,</p>

<p>by the hand of Moses and Aaron.</p>

</body>
</html>