<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 111</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 111</h2>

<p><a id="c111_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise Yah!<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>I will give thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart,</p>

<p>in the council of the upright, and in the congregation.</p>

<p><a id="c111_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh’s works are great,</p>

<p>pondered by all those who delight in them.</p>

<p><a id="c111_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His work is honor and majesty.</p>

<p>His righteousness endures forever.</p>

<p><a id="c111_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He has caused his wonderful works to be remembered.</p>

<p>Yahweh is gracious and merciful.</p>

<p><a id="c111_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He has given food to those who fear him.</p>

<p>He always remembers his covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c111_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He has shown his people the power of his works,</p>

<p>in giving them the heritage of the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c111_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The works of his hands are truth and justice.</p>

<p>All his precepts are sure.</p>

<p><a id="c111_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are established forever and ever.</p>

<p>They are done in truth and uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c111_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He has sent redemption to his people.</p>

<p>He has ordained his covenant forever.</p>

<p>His name is holy and awesome!</p>

<p><a id="c111_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom.</p>

<p>All those who do his work have a good understanding.</p>

<p>His praise endures forever!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Psalm 111 is an acrostic poem, with each verse after the initial “Praise Yah!” starting with a letter of the alphabet (ordered from Alef to Tav).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>