<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh is my light and my salvation.</p>

<p>Whom shall I fear?</p>

<p>Yahweh is the strength of my life.</p>

<p>Of whom shall I be afraid?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When evildoers came at me to eat up my flesh,</p>

<p>even my adversaries and my foes, they stumbled and fell.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Though an army should encamp against me,</p>

<p>my heart shall not fear.</p>

<p>Though war should rise against me,</p>

<p>even then I will be confident.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One thing I have asked of Yahweh, that I will seek after:</p>

<p>that I may dwell in Yahweh’s house all the days of my life,</p>

<p>to see Yahweh’s beauty,</p>

<p>and to inquire in his temple.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For in the day of trouble he will keep me secretly in his pavilion.</p>

<p>In the covert of his tabernacle he will hide me.</p>

<p>He will lift me up on a rock.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now my head will be lifted up above my enemies around me;</p>

<p>I will offer sacrifices of joy in his tent.</p>

<p>I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear, Yahweh, when I cry with my voice.</p>

<p>Have mercy also on me, and answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When you said, “Seek my face,”</p>

<p>my heart said to you, “I will seek your face, Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Don’t hide your face from me.</p>

<p>Don’t put your servant away in anger.</p>

<p>You have been my help.</p>

<p>Don’t abandon me,</p>

<p>neither forsake me, God of my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When my father and my mother forsake me,</p>

<p>then Yahweh will take me up.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Teach me your way, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Lead me in a straight path, because of my enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Don’t deliver me over to the desire of my adversaries,</p>

<p>for false witnesses have risen up against me,</p>

<p>such as breathe out cruelty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I am still confident of this:</p>

<p>I will see the goodness of Yahweh in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wait for Yahweh.</p>

<p>Be strong, and let your heart take courage.</p>

<p>Yes, wait for Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>