<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 51</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 51</h2>

<p><a id="c51_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Have mercy on me, God, according to your loving kindness.</p>

<p>According to the multitude of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity.</p>

<p>Cleanse me from my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I know my transgressions.</p>

<p>My sin is constantly before me.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Against you, and you only, I have sinned,</p>

<p>and done that which is evil in your sight;</p>

<p>that you may be proved right when you speak,</p>

<p>and justified when you judge.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, I was born in iniquity.</p>

<p>In sin my mother conceived me.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts.</p>

<p>You teach me wisdom in the inmost place.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Purify me with hyssop, and I will be clean.</p>

<p>Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let me hear joy and gladness,</p>

<p>That the bones which you have broken may rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hide your face from my sins,</p>

<p>and blot out all of my iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Create in me a clean heart, O God.</p>

<p>Renew a right spirit within me.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Don’t throw me from your presence,</p>

<p>and don’t take your holy Spirit from me.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Restore to me the joy of your salvation.</p>

<p>Uphold me with a willing spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then I will teach transgressors your ways.</p>

<p>Sinners shall be converted to you.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, the God of my salvation.</p>

<p>My tongue shall sing aloud of your righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lord, open my lips.</p>

<p>My mouth shall declare your praise.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For you don’t delight in sacrifice, or else I would give it.</p>

<p>You have no pleasure in burnt offering.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit.</p>

<p>A broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Do well in your good pleasure to Zion.</p>

<p>Build the walls of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then you will delight in the sacrifices of righteousness,</p>

<p>in burnt offerings and in whole burnt offerings.</p>

<p>Then they will offer bulls on your altar.</p>

</body>
</html>