<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will give thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart.</p>

<p>I will tell of all your marvelous works.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will be glad and rejoice in you.</p>

<p>I will sing praise to your name, O Most High.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When my enemies turn back,</p>

<p>they stumble and perish in your presence.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For you have maintained my just cause.</p>

<p>You sit on the throne judging righteously.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You have rebuked the nations.</p>

<p>You have destroyed the wicked.</p>

<p>You have blotted out their name forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The enemy is overtaken by endless ruin.</p>

<p>The very memory of the cities which you have overthrown has perished.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But Yahweh reigns forever.</p>

<p>He has prepared his throne for judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He will judge the world in righteousness.</p>

<p>He will administer judgment to the peoples in uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yahweh will also be a high tower for the oppressed;</p>

<p>a high tower in times of trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Those who know your name will put their trust in you,</p>

<p>for you, Yahweh, have not forsaken those who seek you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sing praises to Yahweh, who dwells in Zion,</p>

<p>and declare among the people what he has done.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For he who avenges blood remembers them.</p>

<p>He doesn’t forget the cry of the afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Have mercy on me, Yahweh.</p>

<p>See my affliction by those who hate me,</p>

<p>and lift me up from the gates of death;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> that I may show all of your praise.</p>

<p>In the gates of the daughter of Zion, I will rejoice in your salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The nations have sunk down in the pit that they made.</p>

<p>In the net which they hid, their own foot is taken.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh has made himself known.</p>

<p>He has executed judgment.</p>

<p>The wicked is snared by the work of his own hands. Meditation. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The wicked shall be turned back to Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>even all the nations that forget God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the needy shall not always be forgotten,</p>

<p>nor the hope of the poor perish forever.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Arise, Yahweh! Don’t let man prevail.</p>

<p>Let the nations be judged in your sight.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Put them in fear, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Let the nations know that they are only men. Selah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>