<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 55</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 55</h2>

<p><a id="c55_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen to my prayer, God.</p>

<p>Don’t hide yourself from my supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Attend to me, and answer me.</p>

<p>I am restless in my complaint, and moan,</p>

<p><a id="c55_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Because of the voice of the enemy,</p>

<p>Because of the oppression of the wicked.</p>

<p>For they bring suffering on me.</p>

<p>In anger they hold a grudge against me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart is severely pained within me.</p>

<p>The terrors of death have fallen on me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Fearfulness and trembling have come on me.</p>

<p>Horror has overwhelmed me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I said, “Oh that I had wings like a dove!</p>

<p>Then I would fly away, and be at rest.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, then I would wander far off.</p>

<p>I would lodge in the wilderness.” Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “I would hurry to a shelter from the stormy wind and storm.”</p>

<p><a id="c55_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Confuse them, Lord, and confound their language,</p>

<p>for I have seen violence and strife in the city.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Day and night they prowl around on its walls.</p>

<p>Malice and abuse are also within her.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Destructive forces are within her.</p>

<p>Threats and lies don’t depart from her streets.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For it was not an enemy who insulted me,</p>

<p>then I could have endured it.</p>

<p>Neither was it he who hated me who raised himself up against me,</p>

<p>then I would have hidden myself from him.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But it was you, a man like me,</p>

<p>my companion, and my familiar friend.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> We took sweet fellowship together.</p>

<p>We walked in God’s house with company.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let death come suddenly on them.</p>

<p>Let them go down alive into Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>For wickedness is among them, in their dwelling.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> As for me, I will call on God.</p>

<p>Yahweh will save me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Evening, morning, and at noon, I will cry out in distress.</p>

<p>He will hear my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me,</p>

<p>although there are many who oppose me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God, who is enthroned forever,</p>

<p>will hear, and answer them. Selah.</p>

<p>They never change,</p>

<p>who don’t fear God.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He raises his hands against his friends.</p>

<p>He has violated his covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His mouth was smooth as butter,</p>

<p>but his heart was war.</p>

<p>His words were softer than oil,</p>

<p>yet they were drawn swords.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Cast your burden on Yahweh, and he will sustain you.</p>

<p>He will never allow the righteous to be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But you, God, will bring them down into the pit of destruction.</p>

<p>Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days,</p>

<p>but I will trust in you.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead. </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>