<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed is he who considers the poor.</p>

<p>Yahweh will deliver him in the day of evil.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh will preserve him, and keep him alive.</p>

<p>He shall be blessed on the earth,</p>

<p>and he will not surrender him to the will of his enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh will sustain him on his sickbed,</p>

<p>and restore him from his bed of illness.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I said, “Yahweh, have mercy on me!</p>

<p>Heal me, for I have sinned against you.”</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My enemies speak evil against me:</p>

<p>“When will he die, and his name perish?”</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If he comes to see me, he speaks falsehood.</p>

<p>His heart gathers iniquity to itself.</p>

<p>When he goes abroad, he tells it.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All who hate me whisper together against me.</p>

<p>They imagine the worst for me.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “An evil disease”, they say, “has afflicted him.</p>

<p>Now that he lies he shall rise up no more.”</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yes, my own familiar friend, in whom I trusted,</p>

<p>who ate bread with me,</p>

<p>has lifted up his heel against me.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But you, Yahweh, have mercy on me, and raise me up,</p>

<p>that I may repay them.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By this I know that you delight in me,</p>

<p>because my enemy doesn’t triumph over me.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As for me, you uphold me in my integrity,</p>

<p>and set me in your presence forever.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel,</p>

<p>from everlasting and to everlasting!</p>

<p>Amen and amen.</p>

</body>
</html>