<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To you, Yahweh, do I lift up my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My God, I have trusted in you.</p>

<p>Don’t let me be shamed.</p>

<p>Don’t let my enemies triumph over me.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yes, no one who waits for you shall be shamed.</p>

<p>They shall be shamed who deal treacherously without cause.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Show me your ways, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Teach me your paths.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Guide me in your truth, and teach me,</p>

<p>For you are the God of my salvation,</p>

<p>I wait for you all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh, remember your tender mercies and your loving kindness,</p>

<p>for they are from old times.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Don’t remember the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions.</p>

<p>Remember me according to your loving kindness,</p>

<p>for your goodness’ sake, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Good and upright is Yahweh,</p>

<p>therefore he will instruct sinners in the way.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He will guide the humble in justice.</p>

<p>He will teach the humble his way.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All the paths of Yahweh are loving kindness and truth</p>

<p>to such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For your name’s sake, Yahweh,</p>

<p>pardon my iniquity, for it is great.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What man is he who fears Yahweh?</p>

<p>He shall instruct him in the way that he shall choose.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His soul shall dwell at ease.</p>

<p>His offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> shall inherit the land.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The friendship of Yahweh is with those who fear him.</p>

<p>He will show them his covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My eyes are ever on Yahweh,</p>

<p>for he will pluck my feet out of the net.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Turn to me, and have mercy on me,</p>

<p>for I am desolate and afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The troubles of my heart are enlarged.</p>

<p>Oh bring me out of my distresses.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Consider my affliction and my travail.</p>

<p>Forgive all my sins.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Consider my enemies, for they are many.</p>

<p>They hate me with cruel hatred.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Oh keep my soul, and deliver me.</p>

<p>Let me not be disappointed, for I take refuge in you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let integrity and uprightness preserve me,</p>

<p>for I wait for you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Redeem Israel, God,</p>

<p>out all of his troubles.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>