<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 57</h2>

<p><a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be merciful to me, God, be merciful to me,</p>

<p>for my soul takes refuge in you.</p>

<p>Yes, in the shadow of your wings, I will take refuge,</p>

<p>until disaster has passed.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I cry out to God Most High,</p>

<p>to God who accomplishes my requests for me.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He will send from heaven, and save me,</p>

<p>he rebukes the one who is pursuing me. Selah.</p>

<p>God will send out his loving kindness and his truth.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My soul is among lions.</p>

<p>I lie among those who are set on fire,</p>

<p>even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows,</p>

<p>and their tongue a sharp sword.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Be exalted, God, above the heavens!</p>

<p>Let your glory be above all the earth!</p>

<p><a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They have prepared a net for my steps.</p>

<p>My soul is bowed down.</p>

<p>They dig a pit before me.</p>

<p>They fall into the middle of it themselves. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My heart is steadfast, God, my heart is steadfast.</p>

<p>I will sing, yes, I will sing praises.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wake up, my glory! Wake up, lute and harp!</p>

<p>I will wake up the dawn.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will give thanks to you, Lord, among the peoples.</p>

<p>I will sing praises to you among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For your great loving kindness reaches to the heavens,</p>

<p>and your truth to the skies.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be exalted, God, above the heavens.</p>

<p>Let your glory be over all the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>