<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 65</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 65</h2>

<p><a id="c65_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise waits for you, God, in Zion.</p>

<p>To you shall vows be performed.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You who hear prayer,</p>

<p>to you all men will come.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sins overwhelmed me,</p>

<p>but you atoned for our transgressions.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed is one whom you choose, and cause to come near,</p>

<p>that he may live in your courts.</p>

<p>We will be filled with the goodness of your house,</p>

<p>your holy temple.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By awesome deeds of righteousness, you answer us,</p>

<p>God of our salvation.</p>

<p>You who are the hope of all the ends of the earth,</p>

<p>of those who are far away on the sea;</p>

<p><a id="c65_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who by his power forms the mountains,</p>

<p>having armed yourself with strength;</p>

<p><a id="c65_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> who stills the roaring of the seas,</p>

<p>the roaring of their waves,</p>

<p>and the turmoil of the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They also who dwell in faraway places are afraid at your wonders.</p>

<p>You call the morning’s dawn and the evening with songs of joy.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You visit the earth, and water it.</p>

<p>You greatly enrich it.</p>

<p>The river of God is full of water.</p>

<p>You provide them grain, for so you have ordained it.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You drench its furrows.</p>

<p>You level its ridges.</p>

<p>You soften it with showers.</p>

<p>You bless it with a crop.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You crown the year with your bounty.</p>

<p>Your carts overflow with abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wilderness grasslands overflow.</p>

<p>The hills are clothed with gladness.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The pastures are covered with flocks.</p>

<p>The valleys also are clothed with grain.</p>

<p>They shout for joy!</p>

<p>They also sing.</p>

</body>
</html>