<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 85</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 85</h2>

<p><a id="c85_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh, you have been favorable to your land.</p>

<p>You have restored the fortunes of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You have forgiven the iniquity of your people.</p>

<p>You have covered all their sin. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You have taken away all your wrath.</p>

<p>You have turned from the fierceness of your anger.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Turn us, God of our salvation,</p>

<p>and cause your indignation toward us to cease.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Will you be angry with us forever?</p>

<p>Will you draw out your anger to all generations?</p>

<p><a id="c85_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Won’t you revive us again,</p>

<p>that your people may rejoice in you?</p>

<p><a id="c85_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Show us your loving kindness, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Grant us your salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will hear what God, Yahweh, will speak,</p>

<p>for he will speak peace to his people, his saints;</p>

<p>but let them not turn again to folly.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely his salvation is near those who fear him,</p>

<p>that glory may dwell in our land.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Mercy and truth meet together.</p>

<p>Righteousness and peace have kissed each other.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Truth springs out of the earth.</p>

<p>Righteousness has looked down from heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yes, Yahweh will give that which is good.</p>

<p>Our land will yield its increase.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Righteousness goes before him,</p>

<p>And prepares the way for his steps.</p>

</body>
</html>