<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To you, Yahweh, I call.</p>

<p>My rock, don’t be deaf to me;</p>

<p>lest, if you are silent to me,</p>

<p>I would become like those who go down into the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear the voice of my petitions, when I cry to you,</p>

<p>when I lift up my hands toward your Most Holy Place.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Don’t draw me away with the wicked,</p>

<p>with the workers of iniquity who speak peace with their neighbors,</p>

<p>but mischief is in their hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give them according to their work, and according to the wickedness of their doings.</p>

<p>Give them according to the operation of their hands.</p>

<p>Bring back on them what they deserve.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because they don’t respect the works of Yahweh,</p>

<p>nor the operation of his hands,</p>

<p>he will break them down and not build them up.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessed be Yahweh,</p>

<p>because he has heard the voice of my petitions.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh is my strength and my shield.</p>

<p>My heart has trusted in him, and I am helped.</p>

<p>Therefore my heart greatly rejoices.</p>

<p>With my song I will thank him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh is their strength.</p>

<p>He is a stronghold of salvation to his anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Save your people,</p>

<p>and bless your inheritance.</p>

<p>Be their shepherd also,</p>

<p>and bear them up forever.</p>

</body>
</html>