<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 106</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 106</h2>

<p><a id="c106_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise Yahweh!</p>

<p>Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good,</p>

<p>for his loving kindness endures forever.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who can utter the mighty acts of Yahweh,</p>

<p>or fully declare all his praise?</p>

<p><a id="c106_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed are those who keep justice.</p>

<p>Blessed is one who does what is right at all times.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Remember me, Yahweh, with the favor that you show to your people.</p>

<p>Visit me with your salvation,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that I may see the prosperity of your chosen,</p>

<p>that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation,</p>

<p>that I may glory with your inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have sinned with our fathers.</p>

<p>We have committed iniquity.</p>

<p>We have done wickedly.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our fathers didn’t understand your wonders in Egypt.</p>

<p>They didn’t remember the multitude of your loving kindnesses,</p>

<p>but were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake,</p>

<p>that he might make his mighty power known.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up;</p>

<p>so he led them through the depths, as through a desert.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He saved them from the hand of him who hated them,</p>

<p>and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The waters covered their adversaries.</p>

<p>There was not one of them left.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then they believed his words.</p>

<p>They sang his praise.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They soon forgot his works.</p>

<p>They didn’t wait for his counsel,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but gave in to craving in the desert,</p>

<p>and tested God in the wasteland.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He gave them their request,</p>

<p>but sent leanness into their soul.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They envied Moses also in the camp,</p>

<p>and Aaron, Yahweh’s saint.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan,</p>

<p>and covered the company of Abiram.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A fire was kindled in their company.</p>

<p>The flame burned up the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They made a calf in Horeb,</p>

<p>and worshiped a molten image.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thus they exchanged their glory</p>

<p>for an image of a bull that eats grass.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They forgot God, their Savior,</p>

<p>who had done great things in Egypt,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wondrous works in the land of Ham,</p>

<p>and awesome things by the Red Sea.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore he said that he would destroy them,</p>

<p>had Moses, his chosen, not stood before him in the breach,</p>

<p>to turn away his wrath, so that he wouldn’t destroy them.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yes, they despised the pleasant land.</p>

<p>They didn’t believe his word,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but murmured in their tents,</p>

<p>and didn’t listen to Yahweh’s voice.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore he swore to them</p>

<p>that he would overthrow them in the wilderness,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> that he would overthrow their offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> among the nations,</p>

<p>and scatter them in the lands.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They joined themselves also to Baal Peor,</p>

<p>and ate the sacrifices of the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Thus they provoked him to anger with their deeds.</p>

<p>The plague broke in on them.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then Phinehas stood up, and executed judgment,</p>

<p>so the plague was stopped.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> That was credited to him for righteousness,</p>

<p>for all generations to come.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> They angered him also at the waters of Meribah,</p>

<p>so that Moses was troubled for their sakes;</p>

<p><a id="c106_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> because they were rebellious against his spirit,</p>

<p>he spoke rashly with his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They didn’t destroy the peoples,</p>

<p>as Yahweh commanded them,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> but mixed themselves with the nations,</p>

<p>and learned their works.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> They served their idols,</p>

<p>which became a snare to them.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> They shed innocent blood,</p>

<p>even the blood of their sons and of their daughters,</p>

<p>whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan.</p>

<p>The land was polluted with blood.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Thus were they defiled with their works,</p>

<p>and prostituted themselves in their deeds.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Therefore Yahweh burned with anger against his people.</p>

<p>He abhorred his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He gave them into the hand of the nations.</p>

<p>Those who hated them ruled over them.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Their enemies also oppressed them.</p>

<p>They were brought into subjection under their hand.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He rescued them many times,</p>

<p>but they were rebellious in their counsel,</p>

<p>and were brought low in their iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Nevertheless he regarded their distress,</p>

<p>when he heard their cry.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> He remembered for them his covenant,</p>

<p>and repented according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He made them also to be pitied</p>

<p>by all those who carried them captive.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Save us, Yahweh, our God,</p>

<p>gather us from among the nations,</p>

<p>to give thanks to your holy name,</p>

<p>to triumph in your praise!</p>

<p><a id="c106_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel,</p>

<p>from everlasting even to everlasting!</p>

<p>Let all the people say, “Amen.”</p>

<p>Praise Yah!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>