<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 88</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 88</h2>

<p><a id="c88_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh, the God of my salvation,</p>

<p>I have cried day and night before you.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my prayer enter into your presence.</p>

<p>Turn your ear to my cry.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my soul is full of troubles.</p>

<p>My life draws near to Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c88_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I am counted among those who go down into the pit.</p>

<p>I am like a man who has no help,</p>

<p><a id="c88_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> set apart among the dead,</p>

<p>like the slain who lie in the grave,</p>

<p>whom you remember no more.</p>

<p>They are cut off from your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You have laid me in the lowest pit,</p>

<p>in the darkest depths.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your wrath lies heavily on me.</p>

<p>You have afflicted me with all your waves. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have taken my friends from me.</p>

<p>You have made me an abomination to them.</p>

<p>I am confined, and I can’t escape.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My eyes are dim from grief.</p>

<p>I have called on you daily, Yahweh.</p>

<p>I have spread out my hands to you.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Do you show wonders to the dead?</p>

<p>Do the departed spirits rise up and praise you? Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Is your loving kindness declared in the grave?</p>

<p>Or your faithfulness in Destruction?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Are your wonders made known in the dark?</p>

<p>Or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But to you, Yahweh, I have cried.</p>

<p>In the morning, my prayer comes before you.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh, why do you reject my soul?</p>

<p>Why do you hide your face from me?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up.</p>

<p>While I suffer your terrors, I am distracted.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Your fierce wrath has gone over me.</p>

<p>Your terrors have cut me off.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They came around me like water all day long.</p>

<p>They completely engulfed me.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You have put lover and friend far from me,</p>

<p>and my friends into darkness.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>