<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 58</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 58</h2>

<p><a id="c58_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Do you indeed speak righteousness, silent ones?</p>

<p>Do you judge blamelessly, you sons of men?</p>

<p><a id="c58_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> No, in your heart you plot injustice.</p>

<p>You measure out the violence of your hands in the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The wicked go astray from the womb.</p>

<p>They are wayward as soon as they are born, speaking lies.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their poison is like the poison of a snake;</p>

<p>like a deaf cobra that stops its ear,</p>

<p><a id="c58_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> which doesn’t listen to the voice of charmers,</p>

<p>no matter how skillful the charmer may be.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Break their teeth, God, in their mouth.</p>

<p>Break out the great teeth of the young lions, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let them vanish like water that flows away.</p>

<p>When they draw the bow, let their arrows be made blunt.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let them be like a snail which melts and passes away,</p>

<p>like the stillborn child, who has not seen the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Before your pots can feel the heat of the thorns,</p>

<p>he will sweep away the green and the burning alike.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The righteous shall rejoice when he sees the vengeance.</p>

<p>He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked;</p>

<p><a id="c58_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> so that men shall say, “Most certainly there is a reward for the righteous.</p>

<p>Most certainly there is a God who judges the earth.”</p>

</body>
</html>