<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed is he whose disobedience is forgiven,</p>

<p>whose sin is covered.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed is the man to whom Yahweh doesn’t impute iniquity,</p>

<p>in whose spirit there is no deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When I kept silence, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For day and night your hand was heavy on me.</p>

<p>My strength was sapped in the heat of summer. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I acknowledged my sin to you.</p>

<p>I didn’t hide my iniquity.</p>

<p>I said, I will confess my transgressions to Yahweh,</p>

<p>and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this, let everyone who is godly pray to you in a time when you may be found.</p>

<p>Surely when the great waters overflow, they shall not reach to him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You are my hiding place.</p>

<p>You will preserve me from trouble.</p>

<p>You will surround me with songs of deliverance. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will instruct you and teach you in the way which you shall go.</p>

<p>I will counsel you with my eye on you.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Don’t be like the horse, or like the mule, which have no understanding,</p>

<p>who are controlled by bit and bridle, or else they will not come near to you.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Many sorrows come to the wicked,</p>

<p>but loving kindness shall surround him who trusts in Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be glad in Yahweh, and rejoice, you righteous!</p>

<p>Shout for joy, all you who are upright in heart!</p>

</body>
</html>