<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 145</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 145</h2>

<p><a id="c145_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will exalt you, my God, the King.</p>

<p>I will praise your name forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every day I will praise you.</p>

<p>I will extol your name forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised!</p>

<p>His greatness is unsearchable.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One generation will commend your works to another,</p>

<p>and will declare your mighty acts.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Of the glorious majesty of your honor,</p>

<p>of your wondrous works, I will meditate.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Men will speak of the might of your awesome acts.</p>

<p>I will declare your greatness.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They will utter the memory of your great goodness,</p>

<p>and will sing of your righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh is gracious, merciful,</p>

<p>slow to anger, and of great loving kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yahweh is good to all.</p>

<p>His tender mercies are over all his works.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All your works will give thanks to you, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Your saints will extol you.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They will speak of the glory of your kingdom,</p>

<p>and talk about your power;</p>

<p><a id="c145_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> to make known to the sons of men his mighty acts,</p>

<p>the glory of the majesty of his kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom.</p>

<p>Your dominion endures throughout all generations.</p>

<p>Yahweh is faithful in all his words,</p>

<p>and loving in all his deeds.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c145_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh upholds all who fall,</p>

<p>and raises up all those who are bowed down.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eyes of all wait for you.</p>

<p>You give them their food in due season.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You open your hand,</p>

<p>and satisfy the desire of every living thing.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yahweh is righteous in all his ways,</p>

<p>and gracious in all his works.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yahweh is near to all those who call on him,</p>

<p>to all who call on him in truth.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him.</p>

<p>He also will hear their cry, and will save them.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yahweh preserves all those who love him,</p>

<p>but all the wicked he will destroy.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My mouth will speak the praise of Yahweh.</p>

<p>Let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Some manuscripts omit these last two lines.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>