<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, if you will receive my words,</p>

<p>and store up my commandments within you;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> So as to turn your ear to wisdom,</p>

<p>and apply your heart to understanding;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yes, if you call out for discernment,</p>

<p>and lift up your voice for understanding;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If you seek her as silver,</p>

<p>and search for her as for hidden treasures:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> then you will understand the fear of Yahweh,</p>

<p>and find the knowledge of God.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For Yahweh gives wisdom.</p>

<p>Out of his mouth comes knowledge and understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He lays up sound wisdom for the upright.</p>

<p>He is a shield to those who walk in integrity;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> that he may guard the paths of justice,</p>

<p>and preserve the way of his saints.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then you will understand righteousness and justice,</p>

<p>equity and every good path.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For wisdom will enter into your heart.</p>

<p>Knowledge will be pleasant to your soul.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Discretion will watch over you.</p>

<p>Understanding will keep you,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> to deliver you from the way of evil,</p>

<p>from the men who speak perverse things;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> who forsake the paths of uprightness,</p>

<p>to walk in the ways of darkness;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> who rejoice to do evil,</p>

<p>and delight in the perverseness of evil;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> who are crooked in their ways,</p>

<p>and wayward in their paths:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To deliver you from the strange woman,</p>

<p>even from the foreigner who flatters with her words;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> who forsakes the friend of her youth,</p>

<p>and forgets the covenant of her God:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for her house leads down to death,</p>

<p>her paths to the departed spirits.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> None who go to her return again,</p>

<p>neither do they attain to the paths of life:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> that you may walk in the way of good men,</p>

<p>and keep the paths of the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the upright will dwell in the land.</p>

<p>The perfect will remain in it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the wicked will be cut off from the land.</p>

<p>The treacherous will be rooted out of it.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>