<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The plans of the heart belong to man,</p>

<p>but the answer of the tongue is from Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes;</p>

<p>but Yahweh weighs the motives.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Commit your deeds to Yahweh,</p>

<p>and your plans shall succeed.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yahweh has made everything for its own end—</p>

<p>yes, even the wicked for the day of evil.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Everyone who is proud in heart is an abomination to Yahweh:</p>

<p>they shall certainly not be unpunished.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By mercy and truth iniquity is atoned for.</p>

<p>By the fear of Yahweh men depart from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When a man’s ways please Yahweh,</p>

<p>he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Better is a little with righteousness,</p>

<p>than great revenues with injustice.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A man’s heart plans his course,</p>

<p>but Yahweh directs his steps.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Inspired judgments are on the lips of the king.</p>

<p>He shall not betray his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Honest balances and scales are Yahweh’s;</p>

<p>all the weights in the bag are his work.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It is an abomination for kings to do wrong,</p>

<p>for the throne is established by righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Righteous lips are the delight of kings.</p>

<p>They value one who speaks the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The king’s wrath is a messenger of death,</p>

<p>but a wise man will pacify it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In the light of the king’s face is life.</p>

<p>His favor is like a cloud of the spring rain.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> How much better it is to get wisdom than gold!</p>

<p>Yes, to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The highway of the upright is to depart from evil.</p>

<p>He who keeps his way preserves his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Pride goes before destruction,</p>

<p>and a haughty spirit before a fall.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor,</p>

<p>than to divide the plunder with the proud.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He who heeds the Word finds prosperity.</p>

<p>Whoever trusts in Yahweh is blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The wise in heart shall be called prudent.</p>

<p>Pleasantness of the lips promotes instruction.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Understanding is a fountain of life to one who has it,</p>

<p>but the punishment of fools is their folly.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The heart of the wise instructs his mouth,</p>

<p>and adds learning to his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Pleasant words are a honeycomb,</p>

<p>sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> There is a way which seems right to a man,</p>

<p>but in the end it leads to death.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The appetite of the laboring man labors for him;</p>

<p>for his mouth urges him on.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> A worthless man devises mischief.</p>

<p>His speech is like a scorching fire.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A perverse man stirs up strife.</p>

<p>A whisperer separates close friends.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> A man of violence entices his neighbor,</p>

<p>and leads him in a way that is not good.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> One who winks his eyes to plot perversities,</p>

<p>one who compresses his lips, is bent on evil.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Gray hair is a crown of glory.</p>

<p>It is attained by a life of righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> One who is slow to anger is better than the mighty;</p>

<p>one who rules his spirit, than he who takes a city.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The lot is cast into the lap,</p>

<p>but its every decision is from Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>