<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Don’t boast about tomorrow;</p>

<p>for you don’t know what a day may bring.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let another man praise you,</p>

<p>and not your own mouth;</p>

<p>a stranger, and not your own lips.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A stone is heavy,</p>

<p>and sand is a burden;</p>

<p>but a fool’s provocation is heavier than both.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wrath is cruel,</p>

<p>and anger is overwhelming;</p>

<p>but who is able to stand before jealousy?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Better is open rebuke</p>

<p>than hidden love.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Faithful are the wounds of a friend;</p>

<p>although the kisses of an enemy are profuse.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A full soul loathes a honeycomb;</p>

<p>but to a hungry soul, every bitter thing is sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As a bird that wanders from her nest,</p>

<p>so is a man who wanders from his home.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Perfume and incense bring joy to the heart;</p>

<p>so does earnest counsel from a man’s friend.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Don’t forsake your friend and your father’s friend.</p>

<p>Don’t go to your brother’s house in the day of your disaster:</p>

<p>better is a neighbor who is near than a distant brother.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be wise, my son,</p>

<p>and bring joy to my heart,</p>

<p>then I can answer my tormentor.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A prudent man sees danger and takes refuge;</p>

<p>but the simple pass on, and suffer for it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take his garment when he puts up collateral for a stranger.</p>

<p>Hold it for a wayward woman!</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He who blesses his neighbor with a loud voice early in the morning,</p>

<p>it will be taken as a curse by him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A continual dropping on a rainy day</p>

<p>and a contentious wife are alike:</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> restraining her is like restraining the wind,</p>

<p>or like grasping oil in his right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Iron sharpens iron;</p>

<p>so a man sharpens his friend’s countenance.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoever tends the fig tree shall eat its fruit.</p>

<p>He who looks after his master shall be honored.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Like water reflects a face,</p>

<p>so a man’s heart reflects the man.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and Abaddon are never satisfied;</p>

<p>and a man’s eyes are never satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The crucible is for silver,</p>

<p>and the furnace for gold;</p>

<p>but man is refined by his praise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Though you grind a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with grain,</p>

<p>yet his foolishness will not be removed from him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Know well the state of your flocks,</p>

<p>and pay attention to your herds:</p>

<p><a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for riches are not forever,</p>

<p>nor does the crown endure to all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The hay is removed, and the new growth appears,</p>

<p>the grasses of the hills are gathered in.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The lambs are for your clothing,</p>

<p>and the goats are the price of a field.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> There will be plenty of goats’ milk for your food,</p>

<p>for your family’s food,</p>

<p>and for the nourishment of your servant girls.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>