<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Doesn’t wisdom cry out?</p>

<p>Doesn’t understanding raise her voice?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> On the top of high places by the way,</p>

<p>where the paths meet, she stands.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Beside the gates, at the entry of the city,</p>

<p>at the entry doors, she cries aloud:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “To you men, I call!</p>

<p>I send my voice to the sons of mankind.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You simple, understand prudence.</p>

<p>You fools, be of an understanding heart.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear, for I will speak excellent things.</p>

<p>The opening of my lips is for right things.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For my mouth speaks truth.</p>

<p>Wickedness is an abomination to my lips.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All the words of my mouth are in righteousness.</p>

<p>There is nothing crooked or perverse in them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They are all plain to him who understands,</p>

<p>right to those who find knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Receive my instruction rather than silver;</p>

<p>knowledge rather than choice gold.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For wisdom is better than rubies.</p>

<p>All the things that may be desired can’t be compared to it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “I, wisdom, have made prudence my dwelling.</p>

<p>Find out knowledge and discretion.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fear of Yahweh is to hate evil.</p>

<p>I hate pride, arrogance, the evil way, and the perverse mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Counsel and sound knowledge are mine.</p>

<p>I have understanding and power.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By me kings reign,</p>

<p>and princes decree justice.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> By me princes rule;</p>

<p>nobles, and all the righteous rulers of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I love those who love me.</p>

<p>Those who seek me diligently will find me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> With me are riches, honor,</p>

<p>enduring wealth, and prosperity.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My fruit is better than gold, yes, than fine gold;</p>

<p>my yield than choice silver.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I walk in the way of righteousness,</p>

<p>in the middle of the paths of justice;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> That I may give wealth to those who love me.</p>

<p>I fill their treasuries.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “Yahweh possessed me in the beginning of his work,</p>

<p>before his deeds of old.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning,</p>

<p>before the earth existed.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When there were no depths, I was born,</p>

<p>when there were no springs abounding with water.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Before the mountains were settled in place,</p>

<p>before the hills, I was born;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> while as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields,</p>

<p>nor the beginning of the dust of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> When he established the heavens, I was there;</p>

<p>when he set a circle on the surface of the deep,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> when he established the clouds above,</p>

<p>when the springs of the deep became strong,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> when he gave to the sea its boundary,</p>

<p>that the waters should not violate his commandment,</p>

<p>when he marked out the foundations of the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> then I was the craftsman by his side.</p>

<p>I was a delight day by day,</p>

<p>always rejoicing before him,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Rejoicing in his whole world.</p>

<p>My delight was with the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> “Now therefore, my sons, listen to me,</p>

<p>for blessed are those who keep my ways.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Hear instruction, and be wise.</p>

<p>Don’t refuse it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Blessed is the man who hears me,</p>

<p>watching daily at my gates,</p>

<p>waiting at my door posts.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whoever finds me, finds life,</p>

<p>and will obtain favor from Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But he who sins against me wrongs his own soul.</p>

<p>All those who hate me love death.”</p>

</body>
</html>