<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of king Lemuel; the revelation which his mother taught him.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Oh, my son!</p>

<p>Oh, son of my womb!</p>

<p>Oh, son of my vows!</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Don’t give your strength to women,</p>

<p>nor your ways to that which destroys kings.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> It is not for kings, Lemuel;</p>

<p>it is not for kings to drink wine;</p>

<p>nor for princes to say, ‘Where is strong drink?’</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> lest they drink, and forget the law,</p>

<p>and pervert the justice due to anyone who is afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Give strong drink to him who is ready to perish;</p>

<p>and wine to the bitter in soul:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let him drink, and forget his poverty,</p>

<p>and remember his misery no more.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Open your mouth for the mute,</p>

<p>in the cause of all who are left desolate.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Open your mouth, judge righteously,</p>

<p>and serve justice to the poor and needy.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> <a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Who can find a worthy woman?</p>

<p>For her price is far above rubies.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heart of her husband trusts in her.</p>

<p>He shall have no lack of gain.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> She does him good, and not harm,</p>

<p>all the days of her life.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> She seeks wool and flax,</p>

<p>and works eagerly with her hands.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> She is like the merchant ships.</p>

<p>She brings her bread from afar.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> She rises also while it is yet night,</p>

<p>gives food to her household,</p>

<p>and portions for her servant girls.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> She considers a field, and buys it.</p>

<p>With the fruit of her hands, she plants a vineyard.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> She arms her waist with strength,</p>

<p>and makes her arms strong.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> She perceives that her merchandise is profitable.</p>

<p>Her lamp doesn’t go out by night.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> She lays her hands to the distaff,</p>

<p>and her hands hold the spindle.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> She opens her arms to the poor;</p>

<p>yes, she extends her hands to the needy.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She is not afraid of the snow for her household;</p>

<p>for all her household are clothed with scarlet.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> She makes for herself carpets of tapestry.</p>

<p>Her clothing is fine linen and purple.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Her husband is respected in the gates,</p>

<p>when he sits among the elders of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> She makes linen garments and sells them,</p>

<p>and delivers sashes to the merchant.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Strength and dignity are her clothing.</p>

<p>She laughs at the time to come.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> She opens her mouth with wisdom.</p>

<p>Faithful instruction is on her tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> She looks well to the ways of her household,</p>

<p>and doesn’t eat the bread of idleness.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Her children rise up and call her blessed.</p>

<p>Her husband also praises her:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “Many women do noble things,</p>

<p>but you excel them all.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain;</p>

<p>but a woman who fears Yahweh, she shall be praised.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Give her of the fruit of her hands!</p>

<p>Let her works praise her in the gates!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Proverbs 31:10-31 form an acrostic, with each verse starting with each letter of the Hebrew alphabet, in order.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>