<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The wicked flee when no one pursues;</p>

<p>but the righteous are as bold as a lion.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In rebellion, a land has many rulers,</p>

<p>but order is maintained by a man of understanding and knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A needy man who oppresses the poor</p>

<p>is like a driving rain which leaves no crops.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Those who forsake the law praise the wicked;</p>

<p>but those who keep the law contend with them.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Evil men don’t understand justice;</p>

<p>but those who seek Yahweh understand it fully.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Better is the poor who walks in his integrity,</p>

<p>than he who is perverse in his ways, and he is rich.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whoever keeps the law is a wise son;</p>

<p>but he who is a companion of gluttons shames his father.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He who increases his wealth by excessive interest</p>

<p>gathers it for one who has pity on the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He who turns away his ear from hearing the law,</p>

<p>even his prayer is an abomination.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Whoever causes the upright to go astray in an evil way,</p>

<p>he will fall into his own trap;</p>

<p>but the blameless will inherit good.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The rich man is wise in his own eyes;</p>

<p>but the poor who has understanding sees through him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When the righteous triumph, there is great glory;</p>

<p>but when the wicked rise, men hide themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He who conceals his sins doesn’t prosper,</p>

<p>but whoever confesses and renounces them finds mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Blessed is the man who always fears;</p>

<p>but one who hardens his heart falls into trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As a roaring lion or a charging bear,</p>

<p>so is a wicked ruler over helpless people.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A tyrannical ruler lacks judgment.</p>

<p>One who hates ill-gotten gain will have long days.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A man who is tormented by life blood will be a fugitive until death;</p>

<p>no one will support him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoever walks blamelessly is kept safe;</p>

<p>but one with perverse ways will fall suddenly.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> One who works his land will have an abundance of food;</p>

<p>but one who chases fantasies will have his fill of poverty.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A faithful man is rich with blessings;</p>

<p>but one who is eager to be rich will not go unpunished.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To show partiality is not good;</p>

<p>yet a man will do wrong for a piece of bread.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A stingy man hurries after riches,</p>

<p>and doesn’t know that poverty waits for him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> One who rebukes a man will afterward find more favor</p>

<p>than one who flatters with the tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoever robs his father or his mother, and says, “It’s not wrong.”</p>

<p>He is a partner with a destroyer.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> One who is greedy stirs up strife;</p>

<p>but one who trusts in Yahweh will prosper.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> One who trusts in himself is a fool;</p>

<p>but one who walks in wisdom is kept safe.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> One who gives to the poor has no lack;</p>

<p>but one who closes his eyes will have many curses.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> When the wicked rise, men hide themselves;</p>

<p>but when they perish, the righteous thrive.</p>

</body>
</html>