<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, pay attention to my wisdom.</p>

<p>Turn your ear to my understanding:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that you may maintain discretion,</p>

<p>that your lips may preserve knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the lips of an adulteress drip honey.</p>

<p>Her mouth is smoother than oil,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but in the end she is as bitter as wormwood,</p>

<p>and as sharp as a two-edged sword.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Her feet go down to death.</p>

<p>Her steps lead straight to Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> She gives no thought to the way of life.</p>

<p>Her ways are crooked, and she doesn’t know it.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now therefore, my sons, listen to me.</p>

<p>Don’t depart from the words of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remove your way far from her.</p>

<p>Don’t come near the door of her house,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> lest you give your honor to others,</p>

<p>and your years to the cruel one;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> lest strangers feast on your wealth,</p>

<p>and your labors enrich another man’s house.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You will groan at your latter end,</p>

<p>when your flesh and your body are consumed,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and say, “How I have hated instruction,</p>

<p>and my heart despised reproof;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> neither have I obeyed the voice of my teachers,</p>

<p>nor turned my ear to those who instructed me!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have come to the brink of utter ruin,</p>

<p>among the gathered assembly.”</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Drink water out of your own cistern,</p>

<p>running water out of your own well.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Should your springs overflow in the streets,</p>

<p>streams of water in the public squares?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let them be for yourself alone,</p>

<p>not for strangers with you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let your spring be blessed.</p>

<p>Rejoice in the wife of your youth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A loving doe and a graceful deer—</p>

<p>let her breasts satisfy you at all times.</p>

<p>Be captivated always with her love.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For why should you, my son, be captivated with an adulteress?</p>

<p>Why embrace the bosom of another?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the ways of man are before Yahweh’s eyes.</p>

<p>He examines all his paths.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The evil deeds of the wicked ensnare him.</p>

<p>The cords of his sin hold him firmly.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He will die for lack of instruction.</p>

<p>In the greatness of his folly, he will go astray.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead. </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>