<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When you sit to eat with a ruler,</p>

<p>consider diligently what is before you;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> put a knife to your throat,</p>

<p>if you are a man given to appetite.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Don’t be desirous of his dainties,</p>

<p>since they are deceitful food.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Don’t weary yourself to be rich.</p>

<p>In your wisdom, show restraint.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why do you set your eyes on that which is not?</p>

<p>For it certainly sprouts wings like an eagle and flies in the sky.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Don’t eat the food of him who has a stingy eye,</p>

<p>and don’t crave his delicacies:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for as he thinks about the cost, so he is.</p>

<p>“Eat and drink!” he says to you,</p>

<p>but his heart is not with you.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The morsel which you have eaten you shall vomit up,</p>

<p>and lose your good words.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Don’t speak in the ears of a fool,</p>

<p>for he will despise the wisdom of your words.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Don’t move the ancient boundary stone.</p>

<p>Don’t encroach on the fields of the fatherless:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for their Defender is strong.</p>

<p>He will plead their case against you.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Apply your heart to instruction,</p>

<p>and your ears to the words of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Don’t withhold correction from a child.</p>

<p>If you punish him with the rod, he will not die.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Punish him with the rod,</p>

<p>and save his soul from Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My son, if your heart is wise,</p>

<p>then my heart will be glad, even mine:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> yes, my heart will rejoice,</p>

<p>when your lips speak what is right.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Don’t let your heart envy sinners;</p>

<p>but rather fear Yahweh all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Indeed surely there is a future hope,</p>

<p>and your hope will not be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Listen, my son, and be wise,</p>

<p>and keep your heart on the right path!</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Don’t be among ones drinking too much wine,</p>

<p>or those who gorge themselves on meat:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> for the drunkard and the glutton shall become poor;</p>

<p>and drowsiness clothes them in rags.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Listen to your father who gave you life,</p>

<p>and don’t despise your mother when she is old.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Buy the truth, and don’t sell it.</p>

<p>Get wisdom, discipline, and understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The father of the righteous has great joy.</p>

<p>Whoever fathers a wise child delights in him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let your father and your mother be glad!</p>

<p>Let her who bore you rejoice!</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> My son, give me your heart;</p>

<p>and let your eyes keep in my ways.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For a prostitute is a deep pit;</p>

<p>and a wayward wife is a narrow well.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Yes, she lies in wait like a robber,</p>

<p>and increases the unfaithful among men.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Who has woe?</p>

<p>Who has sorrow?</p>

<p>Who has strife?</p>

<p>Who has complaints?</p>

<p>Who has needless bruises?</p>

<p>Who has bloodshot eyes?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Those who stay long at the wine;</p>

<p>those who go to seek out mixed wine.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Don’t look at the wine when it is red,</p>

<p>when it sparkles in the cup,</p>

<p>when it goes down smoothly.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> In the end, it bites like a snake,</p>

<p>and poisons like a viper.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Your eyes will see strange things,</p>

<p>and your mind will imagine confusing things.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Yes, you will be as he who lies down in the middle of the sea,</p>

<p>or as he who lies on top of the rigging:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> “They hit me, and I was not hurt!</p>

<p>They beat me, and I don’t feel it!</p>

<p>When will I wake up? I can do it again.</p>

<p>I can find another.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>