<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A wise son listens to his father’s instruction,</p>

<p>but a scoffer doesn’t listen to rebuke.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> By the fruit of his lips, a man enjoys good things;</p>

<p>but the unfaithful crave violence.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He who guards his mouth guards his soul.</p>

<p>One who opens wide his lips comes to ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The soul of the sluggard desires, and has nothing,</p>

<p>but the desire of the diligent shall be fully satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A righteous man hates lies,</p>

<p>but a wicked man brings shame and disgrace.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Righteousness guards the way of integrity,</p>

<p>but wickedness overthrows the sinner.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There are some who pretend to be rich, yet have nothing.</p>

<p>There are some who pretend to be poor, yet have great wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The ransom of a man’s life is his riches,</p>

<p>but the poor hear no threats.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The light of the righteous shines brightly,</p>

<p>but the lamp of the wicked is snuffed out.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Pride only breeds quarrels,</p>

<p>but with ones who take advice is wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wealth gained dishonestly dwindles away,</p>

<p>but he who gathers by hand makes it grow.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hope deferred makes the heart sick,</p>

<p>but when longing is fulfilled, it is a tree of life.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoever despises instruction will pay for it,</p>

<p>but he who respects a command will be rewarded.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The teaching of the wise is a spring of life,</p>

<p>to turn from the snares of death.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Good understanding wins favor;</p>

<p>but the way of the unfaithful is hard.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Every prudent man acts from knowledge,</p>

<p>but a fool exposes folly.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A wicked messenger falls into trouble,</p>

<p>but a trustworthy envoy gains healing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Poverty and shame come to him who refuses discipline,</p>

<p>but he who heeds correction shall be honored.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Longing fulfilled is sweet to the soul,</p>

<p>but fools detest turning from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> One who walks with wise men grows wise,</p>

<p>but a companion of fools suffers harm.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Misfortune pursues sinners,</p>

<p>but prosperity rewards the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A good man leaves an inheritance to his children’s children,</p>

<p>but the wealth of the sinner is stored for the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> An abundance of food is in poor people’s fields,</p>

<p>but injustice sweeps it away.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> One who spares the rod hates his son,</p>

<p>but one who loves him is careful to discipline him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The righteous one eats to the satisfying of his soul,</p>

<p>but the belly of the wicked goes hungry.</p>

</body>
</html>