<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wisdom has built her house.</p>

<p>She has carved out her seven pillars.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> She has prepared her meat.</p>

<p>She has mixed her wine.</p>

<p>She has also set her table.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> She has sent out her maidens.</p>

<p>She cries from the highest places of the city:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Whoever is simple, let him turn in here!”</p>

<p>As for him who is void of understanding, she says to him,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Come, eat some of my bread,</p>

<p>Drink some of the wine which I have mixed!</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Leave your simple ways, and live.</p>

<p>Walk in the way of understanding.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He who corrects a mocker invites insult.</p>

<p>He who reproves a wicked man invites abuse.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Don’t reprove a scoffer, lest he hate you.</p>

<p>Reprove a wise man, and he will love you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Instruct a wise man, and he will be still wiser.</p>

<p>Teach a righteous man, and he will increase in learning.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The fear of Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom.</p>

<p>The knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For by me your days will be multiplied.</p>

<p>The years of your life will be increased.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If you are wise, you are wise for yourself.</p>

<p>If you mock, you alone will bear it.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The foolish woman is loud,</p>

<p>undisciplined, and knows nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> She sits at the door of her house,</p>

<p>on a seat in the high places of the city,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To call to those who pass by,</p>

<p>who go straight on their ways,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Whoever is simple, let him turn in here.”</p>

<p>as for him who is void of understanding, she says to him,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “Stolen water is sweet.</p>

<p>Food eaten in secret is pleasant.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But he doesn’t know that the departed spirits are there,</p>

<p>that her guests are in the depths of Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>