<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Better is a dry morsel with quietness,</p>

<p>than a house full of feasting with strife.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A servant who deals wisely will rule over a son who causes shame,</p>

<p>and shall have a part in the inheritance among the brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold,</p>

<p>but Yahweh tests the hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> An evildoer heeds wicked lips.</p>

<p>A liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whoever mocks the poor reproaches his Maker.</p>

<p>He who is glad at calamity shall not be unpunished.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Children’s children are the crown of old men;</p>

<p>the glory of children are their parents.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Arrogant speech isn’t fitting for a fool,</p>

<p>much less do lying lips fit a prince.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A bribe is a precious stone in the eyes of him who gives it;</p>

<p>wherever he turns, he prospers.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He who covers an offense promotes love;</p>

<p>but he who repeats a matter separates best friends.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A rebuke enters deeper into one who has understanding</p>

<p>than a hundred lashes into a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> An evil man seeks only rebellion;</p>

<p>therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let a bear robbed of her cubs meet a man,</p>

<p>rather than a fool in his folly.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoever rewards evil for good,</p>

<p>evil shall not depart from his house.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The beginning of strife is like breaching a dam,</p>

<p>therefore stop contention before quarreling breaks out.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He who justifies the wicked, and he who condemns the righteous,</p>

<p>both of them alike are an abomination to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Why is there money in the hand of a fool to buy wisdom,</p>

<p>since he has no understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A friend loves at all times;</p>

<p>and a brother is born for adversity.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A man void of understanding strikes hands,</p>

<p>and becomes collateral in the presence of his neighbor.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He who loves disobedience loves strife.</p>

<p>One who builds a high gate seeks destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> One who has a perverse heart doesn’t find prosperity,</p>

<p>and one who has a deceitful tongue falls into trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He who becomes the father of a fool grieves.</p>

<p>The father of a fool has no joy.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A cheerful heart makes good medicine,</p>

<p>but a crushed spirit dries up the bones.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A wicked man receives a bribe in secret,</p>

<p>to pervert the ways of justice.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wisdom is before the face of one who has understanding,</p>

<p>but the eyes of a fool wander to the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A foolish son brings grief to his father,</p>

<p>and bitterness to her who bore him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Also to punish the righteous is not good,</p>

<p>nor to flog officials for their integrity.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He who spares his words has knowledge.</p>

<p>He who is even tempered is a man of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Even a fool, when he keeps silent, is counted wise.</p>

<p>When he shuts his lips, he is thought to be discerning.</p>

</body>
</html>