<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Better is the poor who walks in his integrity</p>

<p>than he who is perverse in his lips and is a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It isn’t good to have zeal without knowledge;</p>

<p>nor being hasty with one’s feet and missing the way.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The foolishness of man subverts his way;</p>

<p>his heart rages against Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wealth adds many friends,</p>

<p>but the poor is separated from his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A false witness shall not be unpunished.</p>

<p>He who pours out lies shall not go free.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Many will entreat the favor of a ruler,</p>

<p>and everyone is a friend to a man who gives gifts.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the relatives of the poor shun him:</p>

<p>how much more do his friends avoid him!</p>

<p>He pursues them with pleas, but they are gone.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He who gets wisdom loves his own soul.</p>

<p>He who keeps understanding shall find good.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A false witness shall not be unpunished.</p>

<p>He who utters lies shall perish.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Delicate living is not appropriate for a fool,</p>

<p>much less for a servant to have rule over princes.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The discretion of a man makes him slow to anger.</p>

<p>It is his glory to overlook an offense.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The king’s wrath is like the roaring of a lion,</p>

<p>but his favor is like dew on the grass.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A foolish son is the calamity of his father.</p>

<p>A wife’s quarrels are a continual dripping.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> House and riches are an inheritance from fathers,</p>

<p>but a prudent wife is from Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep.</p>

<p>The idle soul shall suffer hunger.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He who keeps the commandment keeps his soul,</p>

<p>but he who is contemptuous in his ways shall die.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He who has pity on the poor lends to Yahweh;</p>

<p>he will reward him.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Discipline your son, for there is hope;</p>

<p>don’t be a willing party to his death.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A hot-tempered man must pay the penalty,</p>

<p>for if you rescue him, you must do it again.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Listen to counsel and receive instruction,</p>

<p>that you may be wise in your latter end.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There are many plans in a man’s heart,</p>

<p>but Yahweh’s counsel will prevail.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> That which makes a man to be desired is his kindness.</p>

<p>A poor man is better than a liar.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The fear of Yahweh leads to life, then contentment;</p>

<p>he rests and will not be touched by trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The sluggard buries his hand in the dish;</p>

<p>he will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Flog a scoffer, and the simple will learn prudence;</p>

<p>rebuke one who has understanding, and he will gain knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He who robs his father and drives away his mother,</p>

<p>is a son who causes shame and brings reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If you stop listening to instruction, my son,</p>

<p>you will stray from the words of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A corrupt witness mocks justice,</p>

<p>and the mouth of the wicked gulps down iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Penalties are prepared for scoffers,</p>

<p>and beatings for the backs of fools.</p>

</body>
</html>