<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A gentle answer turns away wrath,</p>

<p>but a harsh word stirs up anger.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The tongue of the wise commends knowledge,</p>

<p>but the mouth of fools gush out folly.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh’s eyes are everywhere,</p>

<p>keeping watch on the evil and the good.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A gentle tongue is a tree of life,</p>

<p>but deceit in it crushes the spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A fool despises his father’s correction,</p>

<p>but he who heeds reproof shows prudence.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the house of the righteous is much treasure,</p>

<p>but the income of the wicked brings trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The lips of the wise spread knowledge;</p>

<p>not so with the heart of fools.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sacrifice made by the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh,</p>

<p>but the prayer of the upright is his delight.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The way of the wicked is an abomination to Yahweh,</p>

<p>but he loves him who follows after righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> There is stern discipline for one who forsakes the way:</p>

<p>whoever hates reproof shall die.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and Abaddon are before Yahweh—</p>

<p>how much more then the hearts of the children of men!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A scoffer doesn’t love to be reproved;</p>

<p>he will not go to the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A glad heart makes a cheerful face;</p>

<p>but an aching heart breaks the spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The heart of one who has understanding seeks knowledge,</p>

<p>but the mouths of fools feed on folly.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All the days of the afflicted are wretched,</p>

<p>but one who has a cheerful heart enjoys a continual feast.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Better is little, with the fear of Yahweh,</p>

<p>than great treasure with trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Better is a dinner of herbs, where love is,</p>

<p>than a fattened calf with hatred.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A wrathful man stirs up contention,</p>

<p>but one who is slow to anger appeases strife.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the sluggard is like a thorn patch,</p>

<p>but the path of the upright is a highway.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A wise son makes a father glad,</p>

<p>but a foolish man despises his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Folly is joy to one who is void of wisdom,</p>

<p>but a man of understanding keeps his way straight.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Where there is no counsel, plans fail;</p>

<p>but in a multitude of counselors they are established.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Joy comes to a man with the reply of his mouth.</p>

<p>How good is a word at the right time!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The path of life leads upward for the wise,</p>

<p>to keep him from going downward to Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Yahweh will uproot the house of the proud,</p>

<p>but he will keep the widow’s borders intact.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Yahweh detests the thoughts of the wicked,</p>

<p>but the thoughts of the pure are pleasing.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He who is greedy for gain troubles his own house,</p>

<p>but he who hates bribes will live.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The heart of the righteous weighs answers,</p>

<p>but the mouth of the wicked gushes out evil.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Yahweh is far from the wicked,</p>

<p>but he hears the prayer of the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The light of the eyes rejoices the heart.</p>

<p>Good news gives health to the bones.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The ear that listens to reproof lives,</p>

<p>and will be at home among the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He who refuses correction despises his own soul,</p>

<p>but he who listens to reproof gets understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The fear of Yahweh teaches wisdom.</p>

<p>Before honor is humility.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>