<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The proverbs of Solomon.</p>

<p>A wise son makes a glad father;</p>

<p>but a foolish son brings grief to his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Treasures of wickedness profit nothing,</p>

<p>but righteousness delivers from death.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh will not allow the soul of the righteous to go hungry,</p>

<p>but he thrusts away the desire of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He becomes poor who works with a lazy hand,</p>

<p>but the hand of the diligent brings wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He who gathers in summer is a wise son,</p>

<p>but he who sleeps during the harvest is a son who causes shame.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessings are on the head of the righteous,</p>

<p>but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The memory of the righteous is blessed,</p>

<p>but the name of the wicked will rot.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The wise in heart accept commandments,</p>

<p>but a chattering fool will fall.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He who walks blamelessly walks surely,</p>

<p>but he who perverts his ways will be found out.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> One winking with the eye causes sorrow,</p>

<p>but a chattering fool will fall.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The mouth of the righteous is a spring of life,</p>

<p>but violence covers the mouth of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hatred stirs up strife,</p>

<p>but love covers all wrongs.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Wisdom is found on the lips of him who has discernment,</p>

<p>but a rod is for the back of him who is void of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wise men lay up knowledge,</p>

<p>but the mouth of the foolish is near ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The rich man’s wealth is his strong city.</p>

<p>The destruction of the poor is their poverty.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The labor of the righteous leads to life.</p>

<p>The increase of the wicked leads to sin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He is in the way of life who heeds correction,</p>

<p>but he who forsakes reproof leads others astray.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He who hides hatred has lying lips.</p>

<p>He who utters a slander is a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the multitude of words there is no lack of disobedience,</p>

<p>but he who restrains his lips does wisely.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The tongue of the righteous is like choice silver.</p>

<p>The heart of the wicked is of little worth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The lips of the righteous feed many,</p>

<p>but the foolish die for lack of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yahweh’s blessing brings wealth,</p>

<p>and he adds no trouble to it.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> It is a fool’s pleasure to do wickedness,</p>

<p>but wisdom is a man of understanding’s pleasure.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> What the wicked fear, will overtake them,</p>

<p>but the desire of the righteous will be granted.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When the whirlwind passes, the wicked is no more;</p>

<p>but the righteous stand firm forever.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes,</p>

<p>so is the sluggard to those who send him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The fear of Yahweh prolongs days,</p>

<p>but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The prospect of the righteous is joy,</p>

<p>but the hope of the wicked will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The way of Yahweh is a stronghold to the upright,</p>

<p>but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The righteous will never be removed,</p>

<p>but the wicked will not dwell in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The mouth of the righteous produces wisdom,</p>

<p>but the perverse tongue will be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable,</p>

<p>but the mouth of the wicked is perverse.</p>

</body>
</html>