<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He who is often rebuked and stiffens his neck</p>

<p>will be destroyed suddenly, with no remedy.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When the righteous thrive, the people rejoice;</p>

<p>but when the wicked rule, the people groan.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Whoever loves wisdom brings joy to his father;</p>

<p>but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The king by justice makes the land stable,</p>

<p>but he who takes bribes tears it down.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A man who flatters his neighbor</p>

<p>spreads a net for his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> An evil man is snared by his sin,</p>

<p>but the righteous can sing and be glad.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The righteous care about justice for the poor.</p>

<p>The wicked aren’t concerned about knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Mockers stir up a city,</p>

<p>but wise men turn away anger.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If a wise man goes to court with a foolish man,</p>

<p>the fool rages or scoffs, and there is no peace.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The bloodthirsty hate a man of integrity;</p>

<p>and they seek the life of the upright.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A fool vents all of his anger,</p>

<p>but a wise man brings himself under control.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If a ruler listens to lies,</p>

<p>all of his officials are wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The poor man and the oppressor have this in common:</p>

<p>Yahweh gives sight to the eyes of both.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The king who fairly judges the poor,</p>

<p>his throne shall be established forever.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The rod of correction gives wisdom,</p>

<p>but a child left to himself causes shame to his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When the wicked increase, sin increases;</p>

<p>but the righteous will see their downfall.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Correct your son, and he will give you peace;</p>

<p>yes, he will bring delight to your soul.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint;</p>

<p>but one who keeps the law is blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A servant can’t be corrected by words.</p>

<p>Though he understands, yet he will not respond.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Do you see a man who is hasty in his words?</p>

<p>There is more hope for a fool than for him.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He who pampers his servant from youth</p>

<p>will have him become a son in the end.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> An angry man stirs up strife,</p>

<p>and a wrathful man abounds in sin.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A man’s pride brings him low,</p>

<p>but one of lowly spirit gains honor.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoever is an accomplice of a thief is an enemy of his own soul.</p>

<p>He takes an oath, but dares not testify.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The fear of man proves to be a snare,</p>

<p>but whoever puts his trust in Yahweh is kept safe.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Many seek the ruler’s favor,</p>

<p>but a man’s justice comes from Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> A dishonest man detests the righteous,</p>

<p>and the upright in their ways detest the wicked.</p>

</body>
</html>