<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> An unfriendly man pursues selfishness,</p>

<p>and defies all sound judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A fool has no delight in understanding,</p>

<p>but only in revealing his own opinion.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When wickedness comes, contempt also comes,</p>

<p>and with shame comes disgrace.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The words of a man’s mouth are like deep waters.</p>

<p>The fountain of wisdom is like a flowing brook.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To be partial to the faces of the wicked is not good,</p>

<p>nor to deprive the innocent of justice.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A fool’s lips come into strife,</p>

<p>and his mouth invites beatings.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A fool’s mouth is his destruction,</p>

<p>and his lips are a snare to his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The words of a gossip are like dainty morsels:</p>

<p>they go down into a person’s innermost parts.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> One who is slack in his work</p>

<p>is brother to him who is a master of destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yahweh’s name is a strong tower:</p>

<p>the righteous run to him, and are safe.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The rich man’s wealth is his strong city,</p>

<p>like an unscalable wall in his own imagination.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Before destruction the heart of man is proud,</p>

<p>but before honor is humility.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He who gives answer before he hears,</p>

<p>that is folly and shame to him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A man’s spirit will sustain him in sickness,</p>

<p>but a crushed spirit, who can bear?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The heart of the discerning gets knowledge.</p>

<p>The ear of the wise seeks knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A man’s gift makes room for him,</p>

<p>and brings him before great men.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He who pleads his cause first seems right;</p>

<p>until another comes and questions him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The lot settles disputes,</p>

<p>and keeps strong ones apart.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A brother offended is more difficult than a fortified city;</p>

<p>and disputes are like the bars of a fortress.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A man’s stomach is filled with the fruit of his mouth.</p>

<p>With the harvest of his lips he is satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Death and life are in the power of the tongue;</p>

<p>those who love it will eat its fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Whoever finds a wife finds a good thing,</p>

<p>and obtains favor of Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The poor plead for mercy,</p>

<p>but the rich answer harshly.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A man of many companions may be ruined,</p>

<p>but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.</p>

</body>
</html>