<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen, sons, to a father’s instruction.</p>

<p>Pay attention and know understanding;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for I give you sound learning.</p>

<p>Don’t forsake my law.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I was a son to my father,</p>

<p>tender and an only child in the sight of my mother.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He taught me, and said to me:</p>

<p>“Let your heart retain my words.</p>

<p>Keep my commandments, and live.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Get wisdom.</p>

<p>Get understanding.</p>

<p>Don’t forget, neither swerve from the words of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Don’t forsake her, and she will preserve you.</p>

<p>Love her, and she will keep you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wisdom is supreme.</p>

<p>Get wisdom.</p>

<p>Yes, though it costs all your possessions, get understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Esteem her, and she will exalt you.</p>

<p>She will bring you to honor, when you embrace her.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> She will give to your head a garland of grace.</p>

<p>She will deliver a crown of splendor to you.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Listen, my son, and receive my sayings.</p>

<p>The years of your life will be many.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have taught you in the way of wisdom.</p>

<p>I have led you in straight paths.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When you go, your steps will not be hampered.</p>

<p>When you run, you will not stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take firm hold of instruction.</p>

<p>Don’t let her go.</p>

<p>Keep her, for she is your life.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Don’t enter into the path of the wicked.</p>

<p>Don’t walk in the way of evil men.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Avoid it, and don’t pass by it.</p>

<p>Turn from it, and pass on.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For they don’t sleep, unless they do evil.</p>

<p>Their sleep is taken away, unless they make someone fall.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For they eat the bread of wickedness,</p>

<p>and drink the wine of violence.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the path of the righteous is like the dawning light,</p>

<p>that shines more and more until the perfect day.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the wicked is like darkness.</p>

<p>They don’t know what they stumble over.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, attend to my words.</p>

<p>Turn your ear to my sayings.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let them not depart from your eyes.</p>

<p>Keep them in the center of your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For they are life to those who find them,</p>

<p>and health to their whole body.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Keep your heart with all diligence,</p>

<p>for out of it is the wellspring of life.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Put away from yourself a perverse mouth.</p>

<p>Put corrupt lips far from you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let your eyes look straight ahead.</p>

<p>Fix your gaze directly before you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Make the path of your feet level.</p>

<p>Let all of your ways be established.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Don’t turn to the right hand nor to the left.</p>

<p>Remove your foot from evil.</p>

</body>
</html>