<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It is the glory of God to conceal a thing,</p>

<p>but the glory of kings is to search out a matter.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth,</p>

<p>so the hearts of kings are unsearchable.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Take away the dross from the silver,</p>

<p>and material comes out for the refiner;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Take away the wicked from the king’s presence,</p>

<p>and his throne will be established in righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Don’t exalt yourself in the presence of the king,</p>

<p>or claim a place among great men;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for it is better that it be said to you, “Come up here,”</p>

<p>than that you should be put lower in the presence of the prince,</p>

<p>whom your eyes have seen.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Don’t be hasty in bringing charges to court.</p>

<p>What will you do in the end when your neighbor shames you?</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Debate your case with your neighbor,</p>

<p>and don’t betray the confidence of another;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> lest one who hears it put you to shame,</p>

<p>and your bad reputation never depart.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A word fitly spoken</p>

<p>is like apples of gold in settings of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold,</p>

<p>so is a wise reprover to an obedient ear.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As the cold of snow in the time of harvest,</p>

<p>so is a faithful messenger to those who send him;</p>

<p>for he refreshes the soul of his masters.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As clouds and wind without rain,</p>

<p>so is he who boasts of gifts deceptively.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By patience a ruler is persuaded.</p>

<p>A soft tongue breaks the bone.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Have you found honey?</p>

<p>Eat as much as is sufficient for you,</p>

<p>lest you eat too much, and vomit it.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor’s house,</p>

<p>lest he be weary of you, and hate you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A man who gives false testimony against his neighbor</p>

<p>is like a club, a sword, or a sharp arrow.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Confidence in someone unfaithful in time of trouble</p>

<p>is like a bad tooth, or a lame foot.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> As one who takes away a garment in cold weather,</p>

<p>or vinegar on soda,</p>

<p>so is one who sings songs to a heavy heart.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat.</p>

<p>If he is thirsty, give him water to drink:</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for you will heap coals of fire on his head,</p>

<p>and Yahweh will reward you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The north wind produces rain;</p>

<p>so a backbiting tongue brings an angry face.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop,</p>

<p>than to share a house with a contentious woman.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Like cold water to a thirsty soul,</p>

<p>so is good news from a far country.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Like a muddied spring, and a polluted well,</p>

<p>so is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> It is not good to eat much honey;</p>

<p>nor is it honorable to seek one’s own honor.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Like a city that is broken down and without walls</p>

<p>is a man whose spirit is without restraint.</p>

</body>
</html>