<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of Agur the son of Jakeh; the revelation:</p>

<p>the man says to Ithiel,</p>

<p>to Ithiel and Ucal:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Surely I am the most ignorant man,</p>

<p>and don’t have a man’s understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have not learned wisdom,</p>

<p>neither do I have the knowledge of the Holy One.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who has ascended up into heaven, and descended?</p>

<p>Who has gathered the wind in his fists?</p>

<p>Who has bound the waters in his garment?</p>

<p>Who has established all the ends of the earth?</p>

<p>What is his name, and what is his son’s name, if you know?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Every word of God is flawless.</p>

<p>He is a shield to those who take refuge in him.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Don’t you add to his words,</p>

<p>lest he reprove you, and you be found a liar.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Two things I have asked of you;</p>

<p>don’t deny me before I die:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remove far from me falsehood and lies.</p>

<p>Give me neither poverty nor riches.</p>

<p>Feed me with the food that is needful for me;</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> lest I be full, deny you, and say, ‘Who is Yahweh?’</p>

<p>or lest I be poor, and steal,</p>

<p>and so dishonor the name of my God.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Don’t slander a servant to his master,</p>

<p>lest he curse you, and you be held guilty.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is a generation that curses their father,</p>

<p>and doesn’t bless their mother.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There is a generation that is pure in their own eyes,</p>

<p>yet are not washed from their filthiness.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> There is a generation, oh how lofty are their eyes!</p>

<p>Their eyelids are lifted up.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> There is a generation whose teeth are like swords,</p>

<p>and their jaws like knives,</p>

<p>to devour the poor from the earth, and the needy from among men.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “The leach has two daughters:</p>

<p>‘Give, give.’</p>

<p>“There are three things that are never satisfied;</p>

<p>four that don’t say, ‘Enough:’</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>the barren womb;</p>

<p>the earth that is not satisfied with water;</p>

<p>and the fire that doesn’t say, ‘Enough.’</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “The eye that mocks at his father,</p>

<p>and scorns obedience to his mother:</p>

<p>the ravens of the valley shall pick it out,</p>

<p>the young eagles shall eat it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “There are three things which are too amazing for me,</p>

<p>four which I don’t understand:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of an eagle in the air;</p>

<p>the way of a serpent on a rock;</p>

<p>the way of a ship in the middle of the sea;</p>

<p>and the way of a man with a maiden.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “So is the way of an adulterous woman:</p>

<p>she eats and wipes her mouth,</p>

<p>and says, ‘I have done nothing wrong.’</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “For three things the earth tremble,</p>

<p>and under four, it can’t bear up:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For a servant when he is king;</p>

<p>a fool when he is filled with food;</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for an unloved woman when she is married;</p>

<p>and a servant who is heir to her mistress.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “There are four things which are little on the earth,</p>

<p>but they are exceedingly wise:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> the ants are not a strong people,</p>

<p>yet they provide their food in the summer.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The conies are but a feeble folk,</p>

<p>yet make they their houses in the rocks.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The locusts have no king,</p>

<p>yet they advance in ranks.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You can catch a lizard with your hands,</p>

<p>yet it is in kings’ palaces.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “There are three things which are stately in their march,</p>

<p>four which are stately in going:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The lion, which is mightiest among animals,</p>

<p>and doesn’t turn away for any;</p>

<p><a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> the greyhound,</p>

<p>the male goat also;</p>

<p>and the king against whom there is no rising up.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> “If you have done foolishly in lifting up yourself,</p>

<p>or if you have thought evil,</p>

<p>put your hand over your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For as the churning of milk produces butter,</p>

<p>and the wringing of the nose produces blood;</p>

<p>so the forcing of wrath produces strife.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>