<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Every wise woman builds her house,</p>

<p>but the foolish one tears it down with her own hands.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He who walks in his uprightness fears Yahweh,</p>

<p>but he who is perverse in his ways despises him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The fool’s talk brings a rod to his back,</p>

<p>but the lips of the wise protect them.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Where no oxen are, the crib is clean,</p>

<p>but much increase is by the strength of the ox.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A truthful witness will not lie,</p>

<p>but a false witness pours out lies.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A scoffer seeks wisdom, and doesn’t find it,</p>

<p>but knowledge comes easily to a discerning person.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Stay away from a foolish man,</p>

<p>for you won’t find knowledge on his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The wisdom of the prudent is to think about his way,</p>

<p>but the folly of fools is deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Fools mock at making atonement for sins,</p>

<p>but among the upright there is good will.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The heart knows its own bitterness and joy;</p>

<p>he will not share these with a stranger.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The house of the wicked will be overthrown,</p>

<p>but the tent of the upright will flourish.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There is a way which seems right to a man,</p>

<p>but in the end it leads to death.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Even in laughter the heart may be sorrowful,</p>

<p>and mirth may end in heaviness.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The unfaithful will be repaid for his own ways;</p>

<p>likewise a good man will be rewarded for his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A simple man believes everything,</p>

<p>but the prudent man carefully considers his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A wise man fears and shuns evil,</p>

<p>but the fool is hot headed and reckless.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He who is quick to become angry will commit folly,</p>

<p>and a crafty man is hated.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The simple inherit folly,</p>

<p>but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The evil bow down before the good,</p>

<p>and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The poor person is shunned even by his own neighbor,</p>

<p>but the rich person has many friends.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He who despises his neighbor sins,</p>

<p>but blessed is he who has pity on the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Don’t they go astray who plot evil?</p>

<p>But love and faithfulness belong to those who plan good.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In all hard work there is profit,</p>

<p>but the talk of the lips leads only to poverty.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The crown of the wise is their riches,</p>

<p>but the folly of fools crowns them with folly.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A truthful witness saves souls,</p>

<p>but a false witness is deceitful.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In the fear of Yahweh is a secure fortress,</p>

<p>and he will be a refuge for his children.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The fear of Yahweh is a fountain of life,</p>

<p>turning people from the snares of death.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the multitude of people is the king’s glory,</p>

<p>but in the lack of people is the destruction of the prince.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He who is slow to anger has great understanding,</p>

<p>but he who has a quick temper displays folly.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The life of the body is a heart at peace,</p>

<p>but envy rots the bones.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He who oppresses the poor shows contempt for his Maker,</p>

<p>but he who is kind to the needy honors him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The wicked is brought down in his calamity,</p>

<p>but in death, the righteous has a refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Wisdom rests in the heart of one who has understanding,</p>

<p>and is even made known in the inward part of fools.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Righteousness exalts a nation,</p>

<p>but sin is a disgrace to any people.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The king’s favor is toward a servant who deals wisely,</p>

<p>but his wrath is toward one who causes shame.</p>

</body>
</html>