<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Like snow in summer, and as rain in harvest,</p>

<p>so honor is not fitting for a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Like a fluttering sparrow,</p>

<p>like a darting swallow,</p>

<p>so the undeserved curse doesn’t come to rest.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A whip is for the horse,</p>

<p>a bridle for the donkey,</p>

<p>and a rod for the back of fools!</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Don’t answer a fool according to his folly,</p>

<p>lest you also be like him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Answer a fool according to his folly,</p>

<p>lest he be wise in his own eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> One who sends a message by the hand of a fool</p>

<p>is cutting off feet and drinking violence.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Like the legs of the lame that hang loose,</p>

<p>so is a parable in the mouth of fools.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As one who binds a stone in a sling,</p>

<p>so is he who gives honor to a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Like a thorn bush that goes into the hand of a drunkard,</p>

<p>so is a parable in the mouth of fools.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As an archer who wounds all,</p>

<p>so is he who hires a fool</p>

<p>or he who hires those who pass by.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As a dog that returns to his vomit,</p>

<p>so is a fool who repeats his folly.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Do you see a man wise in his own eyes?</p>

<p>There is more hope for a fool than for him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sluggard says, “There is a lion in the road!</p>

<p>A fierce lion roams the streets!”</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As the door turns on its hinges,</p>

<p>so does the sluggard on his bed.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sluggard buries his hand in the dish.</p>

<p>He is too lazy to bring it back to his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes</p>

<p>than seven men who answer with discretion.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Like one who grabs a dog’s ears</p>

<p>is one who passes by and meddles in a quarrel not his own.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Like a madman who shoots torches, arrows, and death,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, “Am I not joking?”</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For lack of wood a fire goes out.</p>

<p>Without gossip, a quarrel dies down.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> As coals are to hot embers,</p>

<p>and wood to fire,</p>

<p>so is a contentious man to kindling strife.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The words of a whisperer are as dainty morsels,</p>

<p>they go down into the innermost parts.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Like silver dross on an earthen vessel</p>

<p>are the lips of a fervent one with an evil heart.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A malicious man disguises himself with his lips,</p>

<p>but he harbors evil in his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When his speech is charming, don’t believe him;</p>

<p>for there are seven abominations in his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> His malice may be concealed by deception,</p>

<p>but his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoever digs a pit shall fall into it.</p>

<p>Whoever rolls a stone, it will come back on him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A lying tongue hates those it hurts;</p>

<p>and a flattering mouth works ruin.</p>

</body>
</html>