<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The king’s heart is in Yahweh’s hand like the watercourses.</p>

<p>He turns it wherever he desires.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every way of a man is right in his own eyes,</p>

<p>but Yahweh weighs the hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To do righteousness and justice</p>

<p>is more acceptable to Yahweh than sacrifice.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A high look, and a proud heart,</p>

<p>the lamp of the wicked, is sin.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The plans of the diligent surely lead to profit;</p>

<p>and everyone who is hasty surely rushes to poverty.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Getting treasures by a lying tongue</p>

<p>is a fleeting vapor for those who seek death.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The violence of the wicked will drive them away,</p>

<p>because they refuse to do what is right.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The way of the guilty is devious,</p>

<p>but the conduct of the innocent is upright.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop,</p>

<p>than to share a house with a contentious woman.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The soul of the wicked desires evil;</p>

<p>his neighbor finds no mercy in his eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When the mocker is punished, the simple gains wisdom.</p>

<p>When the wise is instructed, he receives knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The Righteous One considers the house of the wicked,</p>

<p>and brings the wicked to ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoever stops his ears at the cry of the poor,</p>

<p>he will also cry out, but shall not be heard.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A gift in secret pacifies anger;</p>

<p>and a bribe in the cloak, strong wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It is joy to the righteous to do justice;</p>

<p>but it is a destruction to the workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The man who wanders out of the way of understanding</p>

<p>shall rest in the assembly of the departed spirits.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He who loves pleasure shall be a poor man.</p>

<p>He who loves wine and oil shall not be rich.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The wicked is a ransom for the righteous;</p>

<p>the treacherous for the upright.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is better to dwell in a desert land,</p>

<p>than with a contentious and fretful woman.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> There is precious treasure and oil in the dwelling of the wise;</p>

<p>but a foolish man swallows it up.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He who follows after righteousness and kindness</p>

<p>finds life, righteousness, and honor.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A wise man scales the city of the mighty,</p>

<p>and brings down the strength of its confidence.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoever guards his mouth and his tongue</p>

<p>keeps his soul from troubles.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The proud and haughty man, “scoffer” is his name;</p>

<p>he works in the arrogance of pride.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The desire of the sluggard kills him,</p>

<p>for his hands refuse to labor.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There are those who covet greedily all day long;</p>

<p>but the righteous give and don’t withhold.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination;</p>

<p>how much more, when he brings it with a wicked mind!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A false witness will perish,</p>

<p>and a man who listens speaks to eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> A wicked man hardens his face;</p>

<p>but as for the upright, he establishes his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> There is no wisdom nor understanding</p>

<p>nor counsel against Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The horse is prepared for the day of battle;</p>

<p>but victory is with Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>