<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A good name is more desirable than great riches,</p>

<p>and loving favor is better than silver and gold.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The rich and the poor have this in common:</p>

<p>Yahweh is the maker of them all.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A prudent man sees danger, and hides himself;</p>

<p>but the simple pass on, and suffer for it.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The result of humility and the fear of Yahweh</p>

<p>is wealth, honor, and life.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thorns and snares are in the path of the wicked:</p>

<p>whoever guards his soul stays from them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Train up a child in the way he should go,</p>

<p>and when he is old he will not depart from it.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The rich rule over the poor.</p>

<p>The borrower is servant to the lender.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He who sows wickedness reaps trouble,</p>

<p>and the rod of his fury will be destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He who has a generous eye will be blessed;</p>

<p>for he shares his food with the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Drive out the mocker, and strife will go out;</p>

<p>yes, quarrels and insults will stop.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He who loves purity of heart and speaks gracefully</p>

<p>is the king’s friend.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh’s eyes watch over knowledge;</p>

<p>but he frustrates the words of the unfaithful.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sluggard says, “There is a lion outside!</p>

<p>I will be killed in the streets!”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The mouth of an adulteress is a deep pit.</p>

<p>He who is under Yahweh’s wrath will fall into it.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Folly is bound up in the heart of a child:</p>

<p>the rod of discipline drives it far from him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoever oppresses the poor for his own increase and whoever gives to the rich,</p>

<p>both come to poverty.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Turn your ear, and listen to the words of the wise.</p>

<p>Apply your heart to my teaching.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For it is a pleasant thing if you keep them within you,</p>

<p>if all of them are ready on your lips.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> That your trust may be in Yahweh,</p>

<p>I teach you today, even you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Haven’t I written to you thirty excellent things</p>

<p>of counsel and knowledge,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To teach you truth, reliable words,</p>

<p>to give sound answers to the ones who sent you?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Don’t exploit the poor, because he is poor;</p>

<p>and don’t crush the needy in court;</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for Yahweh will plead their case,</p>

<p>and plunder the life of those who plunder them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Don’t befriend a hot-tempered man,</p>

<p>and don’t associate with one who harbors anger:</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> lest you learn his ways,</p>

<p>and ensnare your soul.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Don’t you be one of those who strike hands,</p>

<p>of those who are collateral for debts.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If you don’t have means to pay,</p>

<p>why should he take away your bed from under you?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Don’t move the ancient boundary stone,</p>

<p>which your fathers have set up.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Do you see a man skilled in his work?</p>

<p>He will serve kings.</p>

<p>He won’t serve obscure men.</p>

</body>
</html>