<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, if you have become collateral for your neighbor,</p>

<p>if you have struck your hands in pledge for a stranger;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You are trapped by the words of your mouth.</p>

<p>You are ensnared with the words of your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do this now, my son, and deliver yourself,</p>

<p>since you have come into the hand of your neighbor.</p>

<p>Go, humble yourself.</p>

<p>Press your plea with your neighbor.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give no sleep to your eyes,</p>

<p>nor slumber to your eyelids.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Free yourself, like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter,</p>

<p>like a bird from the snare of the fowler.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Go to the ant, you sluggard.</p>

<p>Consider her ways, and be wise;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> which having no chief, overseer, or ruler,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> provides her bread in the summer,</p>

<p>and gathers her food in the harvest.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> How long will you sleep, sluggard?</p>

<p>When will you arise out of your sleep?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A little sleep, a little slumber,</p>

<p>a little folding of the hands to sleep:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> so your poverty will come as a robber,</p>

<p>and your scarcity as an armed man.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A worthless person, a man of iniquity,</p>

<p>is he who walks with a perverse mouth;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> who winks with his eyes, who signals with his feet,</p>

<p>who motions with his fingers;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> in whose heart is perverseness,</p>

<p>who devises evil continually,</p>

<p>who always sows discord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore his calamity will come suddenly.</p>

<p>He will be broken suddenly, and that without remedy.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There are six things which Yahweh hates;</p>

<p>yes, seven which are an abomination to him:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> haughty eyes, a lying tongue,</p>

<p>hands that shed innocent blood;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> a heart that devises wicked schemes,</p>

<p>feet that are swift in running to mischief,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> a false witness who utters lies,</p>

<p>and he who sows discord among brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, keep your father’s commandment,</p>

<p>and don’t forsake your mother’s teaching.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bind them continually on your heart.</p>

<p>Tie them around your neck.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When you walk, it will lead you.</p>

<p>When you sleep, it will watch over you.</p>

<p>When you awake, it will talk with you.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the commandment is a lamp,</p>

<p>and the law is light.</p>

<p>Reproofs of instruction are the way of life,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> to keep you from the immoral woman,</p>

<p>from the flattery of the wayward wife’s tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Don’t lust after her beauty in your heart,</p>

<p>neither let her captivate you with her eyelids.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For a prostitute reduces you to a piece of bread.</p>

<p>The adulteress hunts for your precious life.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Can a man scoop fire into his lap,</p>

<p>and his clothes not be burned?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Or can one walk on hot coals,</p>

<p>and his feet not be scorched?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So is he who goes in to his neighbor’s wife.</p>

<p>Whoever touches her will not be unpunished.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Men don’t despise a thief,</p>

<p>if he steals to satisfy himself when he is hungry:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> but if he is found, he shall restore seven times.</p>

<p>He shall give all the wealth of his house.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He who commits adultery with a woman is void of understanding.</p>

<p>He who does it destroys his own soul.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He will get wounds and dishonor.</p>

<p>His reproach will not be wiped away.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For jealousy arouses the fury of the husband.</p>

<p>He won’t spare in the day of vengeance.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He won’t regard any ransom,</p>

<p>neither will he rest content, though you give many gifts.</p>

</body>
</html>