<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A false balance is an abomination to Yahweh,</p>

<p>but accurate weights are his delight.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When pride comes, then comes shame,</p>

<p>but with humility comes wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The integrity of the upright shall guide them,</p>

<p>but the perverseness of the treacherous shall destroy them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Riches don’t profit in the day of wrath,</p>

<p>but righteousness delivers from death.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The righteousness of the blameless will direct his way,</p>

<p>but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them,</p>

<p>but the unfaithful will be trapped by evil desires.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When a wicked man dies, hope perishes,</p>

<p>and expectation of power comes to nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A righteous person is delivered out of trouble,</p>

<p>and the wicked takes his place.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With his mouth the godless man destroys his neighbor,</p>

<p>but the righteous will be delivered through knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices.</p>

<p>When the wicked perish, there is shouting.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted,</p>

<p>but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> One who despises his neighbor is void of wisdom,</p>

<p>but a man of understanding holds his peace.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> One who brings gossip betrays a confidence,</p>

<p>but one who is of a trustworthy spirit is one who keeps a secret.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Where there is no wise guidance, the nation falls,</p>

<p>but in the multitude of counselors there is victory.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He who is collateral for a stranger will suffer for it,</p>

<p>but he who refuses pledges of collateral is secure.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A gracious woman obtains honor,</p>

<p>but violent men obtain riches.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The merciful man does good to his own soul,</p>

<p>but he who is cruel troubles his own flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Wicked people earn deceitful wages,</p>

<p>but one who sows righteousness reaps a sure reward.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He who is truly righteous gets life.</p>

<p>He who pursues evil gets death.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Those who are perverse in heart are an abomination to Yahweh,</p>

<p>but those whose ways are blameless are his delight.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Most certainly, the evil man will not be unpunished,</p>

<p>but the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the righteous will be delivered.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Like a gold ring in a pig’s snout,</p>

<p>is a beautiful woman who lacks discretion.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The desire of the righteous is only good.</p>

<p>The expectation of the wicked is wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> There is one who scatters, and increases yet more.</p>

<p>There is one who withholds more than is appropriate, but gains poverty.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The liberal soul shall be made fat.</p>

<p>He who waters shall be watered also himself.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> People curse someone who withholds grain,</p>

<p>but blessing will be on the head of him who sells it.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He who diligently seeks good seeks favor,</p>

<p>but he who searches after evil, it shall come to him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He who trusts in his riches will fall,</p>

<p>but the righteous shall flourish as the green leaf.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He who troubles his own house shall inherit the wind.</p>

<p>The foolish shall be servant to the wise of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life.</p>

<p>He who is wise wins souls.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Behold, the righteous shall be repaid in the earth;</p>

<p>how much more the wicked and the sinner!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>