<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wine is a mocker, and beer is a brawler.</p>

<p>Whoever is led astray by them is not wise.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The terror of a king is like the roaring of a lion.</p>

<p>He who provokes him to anger forfeits his own life.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife;</p>

<p>but every fool will be quarreling.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The sluggard will not plow by reason of the winter;</p>

<p>therefore he shall beg in harvest, and have nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water;</p>

<p>but a man of understanding will draw it out.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Many men claim to be men of unfailing love,</p>

<p>but who can find a faithful man?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A righteous man walks in integrity.</p>

<p>Blessed are his children after him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A king who sits on the throne of judgment</p>

<p>scatters away all evil with his eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who can say, “I have made my heart pure.</p>

<p>I am clean and without sin?”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Differing weights and differing measures,</p>

<p>both of them alike are an abomination to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Even a child makes himself known by his doings,</p>

<p>whether his work is pure, and whether it is right.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The hearing ear, and the seeing eye,</p>

<p>Yahweh has made even both of them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Don’t love sleep, lest you come to poverty.</p>

<p>Open your eyes, and you shall be satisfied with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “It’s no good, it’s no good,” says the buyer;</p>

<p>but when he is gone his way, then he boasts.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There is gold and abundance of rubies;</p>

<p>but the lips of knowledge are a rare jewel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Take the garment of one who puts up collateral for a stranger;</p>

<p>and hold him in pledge for a wayward woman.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fraudulent food is sweet to a man,</p>

<p>but afterwards his mouth is filled with gravel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Plans are established by advice;</p>

<p>by wise guidance you wage war!</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He who goes about as a tale-bearer reveals secrets;</p>

<p>therefore don’t keep company with him who opens wide his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whoever curses his father or his mother,</p>

<p>his lamp shall be put out in blackness of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> An inheritance quickly gained at the beginning,</p>

<p>won’t be blessed in the end.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Don’t say, “I will pay back evil.”</p>

<p>Wait for Yahweh, and he will save you.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yahweh detests differing weights,</p>

<p>and dishonest scales are not pleasing.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A man’s steps are from Yahweh;</p>

<p>how then can man understand his way?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It is a snare to a man to make a rash dedication,</p>

<p>then later to consider his vows.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> A wise king winnows out the wicked,</p>

<p>and drives the threshing wheel over them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The spirit of man is Yahweh’s lamp,</p>

<p>searching all his innermost parts.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Love and faithfulness keep the king safe.</p>

<p>His throne is sustained by love.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The glory of young men is their strength.</p>

<p>The splendor of old men is their gray hair.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Wounding blows cleanse away evil,</p>

<p>and beatings purge the innermost parts.</p>

</body>
</html>