<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Don’t be envious of evil men;</p>

<p>neither desire to be with them:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for their hearts plot violence,</p>

<p>and their lips talk about mischief.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Through wisdom a house is built;</p>

<p>by understanding it is established;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> by knowledge the rooms are filled</p>

<p>with all rare and beautiful treasure.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A wise man has great power;</p>

<p>and a knowledgeable man increases strength;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for by wise guidance you wage your war;</p>

<p>and victory is in many advisors.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wisdom is too high for a fool:</p>

<p>he doesn’t open his mouth in the gate.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> One who plots to do evil</p>

<p>will be called a schemer.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The schemes of folly are sin.</p>

<p>The mocker is detested by men.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If you falter in the time of trouble,</p>

<p>your strength is small.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rescue those who are being led away to death!</p>

<p>Indeed, hold back those who are staggering to the slaughter!</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If you say, “Behold, we didn’t know this”;</p>

<p>doesn’t he who weighs the hearts consider it?</p>

<p>He who keeps your soul, doesn’t he know it?</p>

<p>Shall he not render to every man according to his work?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> My son, eat honey, for it is good;</p>

<p>the droppings of the honeycomb, which are sweet to your taste:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> so you shall know wisdom to be to your soul;</p>

<p>if you have found it, then there will be a reward,</p>

<p>your hope will not be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Don’t lay in wait, wicked man, against the habitation of the righteous.</p>

<p>Don’t destroy his resting place:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for a righteous man falls seven times, and rises up again;</p>

<p>but the wicked are overthrown by calamity.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Don’t rejoice when your enemy falls.</p>

<p>Don’t let your heart be glad when he is overthrown;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> lest Yahweh see it, and it displease him,</p>

<p>and he turn away his wrath from him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Don’t fret yourself because of evildoers;</p>

<p>neither be envious of the wicked:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for there will be no reward to the evil man;</p>

<p>and the lamp of the wicked shall be snuffed out.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son, fear Yahweh and the king.</p>

<p>Don’t join those who are rebellious:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for their calamity will rise suddenly;</p>

<p>the destruction from them both—who knows?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> These also are sayings of the wise.</p>

<p>To show partiality in judgment is not good.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He who says to the wicked, “You are righteous”;</p>

<p>peoples will curse him, and nations will abhor him—</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but it will go well with those who convict the guilty,</p>

<p>and a rich blessing will come on them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> An honest answer</p>

<p>is like a kiss on the lips.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Prepare your work outside,</p>

<p>and get your fields ready.</p>

<p>Afterwards, build your house.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Don’t be a witness against your neighbor without cause.</p>

<p>Don’t deceive with your lips.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Don’t say, “I will do to him as he has done to me;</p>

<p>I will render to the man according to his work.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I went by the field of the sluggard,</p>

<p>by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Behold, it was all grown over with thorns.</p>

<p>Its surface was covered with nettles,</p>

<p>and its stone wall was broken down.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then I saw, and considered well.</p>

<p>I saw, and received instruction:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> a little sleep, a little slumber,</p>

<p>a little folding of the hands to sleep;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> so your poverty will come as a robber,</p>

<p>and your want as an armed man.</p>

</body>
</html>