<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, keep my words.</p>

<p>Lay up my commandments within you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Keep my commandments and live!</p>

<p>Guard my teaching as the apple of your eye.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bind them on your fingers.</p>

<p>Write them on the tablet of your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Tell wisdom, “You are my sister.”</p>

<p>Call understanding your relative,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that they may keep you from the strange woman,</p>

<p>from the foreigner who flatters with her words.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For at the window of my house,</p>

<p>I looked out through my lattice.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I saw among the simple ones.</p>

<p>I discerned among the youths a young man void of understanding,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> passing through the street near her corner,</p>

<p>he went the way to her house,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> in the twilight, in the evening of the day,</p>

<p>in the middle of the night and in the darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, there a woman met him with the attire of a prostitute,</p>

<p>and with crafty intent.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> She is loud and defiant.</p>

<p>Her feet don’t stay in her house.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now she is in the streets, now in the squares,</p>

<p>and lurking at every corner.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So she caught him, and kissed him.</p>

<p>With an impudent face she said to him:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Sacrifices of peace offerings are with me.</p>

<p>Today I have paid my vows.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore I came out to meet you,</p>

<p>to diligently seek your face,</p>

<p>and I have found you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have spread my couch with carpets of tapestry,</p>

<p>with striped cloths of the yarn of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Come, let’s take our fill of loving until the morning.</p>

<p>Let’s solace ourselves with loving.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For my husband isn’t at home.</p>

<p>He has gone on a long journey.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He has taken a bag of money with him.</p>

<p>He will come home at the full moon.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> With persuasive words, she led him astray.</p>

<p>With the flattering of her lips, she seduced him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He followed her immediately,</p>

<p>as an ox goes to the slaughter,</p>

<p>as a fool stepping into a noose.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Until an arrow strikes through his liver,</p>

<p>as a bird hurries to the snare,</p>

<p>and doesn’t know that it will cost his life.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Now therefore, sons, listen to me.</p>

<p>Pay attention to the words of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Don’t let your heart turn to her ways.</p>

<p>Don’t go astray in her paths,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for she has thrown down many wounded.</p>

<p>Yes, all her slain are a mighty army.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Her house is the way to Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>going down to the rooms of death.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead. </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>