<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to know wisdom and instruction;</p>

<p>to discern the words of understanding;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> to receive instruction in wise dealing,</p>

<p>in righteousness, justice, and equity;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to give prudence to the simple,</p>

<p>knowledge and discretion to the young man:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that the wise man may hear, and increase in learning;</p>

<p>that the man of understanding may attain to sound counsel:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> to understand a proverb, and parables,</p>

<p>the words and riddles of the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The fear of Yahweh<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is the beginning of knowledge;</p>

<p>but the foolish despise wisdom and instruction.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My son, listen to your father’s instruction,</p>

<p>and don’t forsake your mother’s teaching:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for they will be a garland to grace your head,</p>

<p>and chains around your neck.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My son, if sinners entice you,</p>

<p>don’t consent.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they say, “Come with us.</p>

<p>Let’s lay in wait for blood.</p>

<p>Let’s lurk secretly for the innocent without cause.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let’s swallow them up alive like Sheol,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>and whole, like those who go down into the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> We’ll find all valuable wealth.</p>

<p>We’ll fill our houses with plunder.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You shall cast your lot among us.</p>

<p>We’ll all have one purse.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My son, don’t walk on the path with them.</p>

<p>Keep your foot from their path,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for their feet run to evil.</p>

<p>They hurry to shed blood.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For in vain is the net spread in the sight of any bird:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> but these lay wait for their own blood.</p>

<p>They lurk secretly for their own lives.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain.</p>

<p>It takes away the life of its owners.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wisdom calls aloud in the street.</p>

<p>She utters her voice in the public squares.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She calls at the head of noisy places.</p>

<p>At the entrance of the city gates, she utters her words:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “How long, you simple ones, will you love simplicity?</p>

<p>How long will mockers delight themselves in mockery,</p>

<p>and fools hate knowledge?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Turn at my reproof.</p>

<p>Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> I will pour out my spirit on you.</p>

<p>I will make known my words to you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Because I have called, and you have refused;</p>

<p>I have stretched out my hand, and no one has paid attention;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but you have ignored all my counsel,</p>

<p>and wanted none of my reproof;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I also will laugh at your disaster.</p>

<p>I will mock when calamity overtakes you;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> when calamity overtakes you like a storm,</p>

<p>when your disaster comes on like a whirlwind;</p>

<p>when distress and anguish come on you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then will they call on me, but I will not answer.</p>

<p>They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> because they hated knowledge,</p>

<p>and didn’t choose the fear of Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They wanted none of my counsel.</p>

<p>They despised all my reproof.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore they will eat of the fruit of their own way,</p>

<p>and be filled with their own schemes.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the backsliding of the simple will kill them.</p>

<p>The careless ease of fools will destroy them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But whoever listens to me will dwell securely,</p>

<p>and will be at ease, without fear of harm.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>