<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, don’t forget my teaching;</p>

<p>but let your heart keep my commandments:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for length of days, and years of life,</p>

<p>and peace, will they add to you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Don’t let kindness and truth forsake you.</p>

<p>Bind them around your neck.</p>

<p>Write them on the tablet of your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So you will find favor,</p>

<p>and good understanding in the sight of God and man.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Trust in Yahweh with all your heart,</p>

<p>and don’t lean on your own understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In all your ways acknowledge him,</p>

<p>and he will make your paths straight.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Don’t be wise in your own eyes.</p>

<p>Fear Yahweh, and depart from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It will be health to your body,</p>

<p>and nourishment to your bones.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Honor Yahweh with your substance,</p>

<p>with the first fruits of all your increase:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> so your barns will be filled with plenty,</p>

<p>and your vats will overflow with new wine.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My son, don’t despise Yahweh’s discipline,</p>

<p>neither be weary of his reproof:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for whom Yahweh loves, he reproves;</p>

<p>even as a father reproves the son in whom he delights.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Happy is the man who finds wisdom,</p>

<p>the man who gets understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For her good profit is better than getting silver,</p>

<p>and her return is better than fine gold.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> She is more precious than rubies.</p>

<p>None of the things you can desire are to be compared to her.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Length of days is in her right hand.</p>

<p>In her left hand are riches and honor.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Her ways are ways of pleasantness.</p>

<p>All her paths are peace.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her.</p>

<p>Happy is everyone who retains her.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> By wisdom Yahweh founded the earth.</p>

<p>By understanding, he established the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By his knowledge, the depths were broken up,</p>

<p>and the skies drop down the dew.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son, let them not depart from your eyes.</p>

<p>Keep sound wisdom and discretion:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> so they will be life to your soul,</p>

<p>and grace for your neck.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then you shall walk in your way securely.</p>

<p>Your foot won’t stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When you lie down, you will not be afraid.</p>

<p>Yes, you will lie down, and your sleep will be sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Don’t be afraid of sudden fear,</p>

<p>neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it comes:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for Yahweh will be your confidence,</p>

<p>and will keep your foot from being taken.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Don’t withhold good from those to whom it is due,</p>

<p>when it is in the power of your hand to do it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Don’t say to your neighbor, “Go, and come again;</p>

<p>tomorrow I will give it to you,”</p>

<p>when you have it by you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Don’t devise evil against your neighbor,</p>

<p>since he dwells securely by you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Don’t strive with a man without cause,</p>

<p>if he has done you no harm.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Don’t envy the man of violence.</p>

<p>Choose none of his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the perverse is an abomination to Yahweh,</p>

<p>but his friendship is with the upright.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Yahweh’s curse is in the house of the wicked,</p>

<p>but he blesses the habitation of the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Surely he mocks the mockers,</p>

<p>but he gives grace to the humble.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The wise will inherit glory,</p>

<p>but shame will be the promotion of fools.</p>

</body>
</html>