<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whoever loves correction loves knowledge,</p>

<p>but he who hates reproof is stupid.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A good man shall obtain favor from Yahweh,</p>

<p>but he will condemn a man of wicked devices.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A man shall not be established by wickedness,</p>

<p>but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A worthy woman is the crown of her husband,</p>

<p>but a disgraceful wife is as rottenness in his bones.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The thoughts of the righteous are just,</p>

<p>but the advice of the wicked is deceitful.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The words of the wicked are about lying in wait for blood,</p>

<p>but the speech of the upright rescues them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The wicked are overthrown, and are no more,</p>

<p>but the house of the righteous shall stand.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A man shall be commended according to his wisdom,</p>

<p>but he who has a warped mind shall be despised.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Better is he who is lightly esteemed, and has a servant,</p>

<p>than he who honors himself, and lacks bread.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A righteous man respects the life of his animal,</p>

<p>but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He who tills his land shall have plenty of bread,</p>

<p>but he who chases fantasies is void of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wicked desires the plunder of evil men,</p>

<p>but the root of the righteous flourishes.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> An evil man is trapped by sinfulness of lips,</p>

<p>but the righteous shall come out of trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth.</p>

<p>The work of a man’s hands shall be rewarded to him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The way of a fool is right in his own eyes,</p>

<p>but he who is wise listens to counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A fool shows his annoyance the same day,</p>

<p>but one who overlooks an insult is prudent.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He who is truthful testifies honestly,</p>

<p>but a false witness lies.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There is one who speaks rashly like the piercing of a sword,</p>

<p>but the tongue of the wise heals.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Truth’s lips will be established forever,</p>

<p>but a lying tongue is only momentary.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil,</p>

<p>but joy comes to the promoters of peace.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> No mischief shall happen to the righteous,</p>

<p>but the wicked shall be filled with evil.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Lying lips are an abomination to Yahweh,</p>

<p>but those who do the truth are his delight.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A prudent man keeps his knowledge,</p>

<p>but the hearts of fools proclaim foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The hands of the diligent ones shall rule,</p>

<p>but laziness ends in slave labor.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Anxiety in a man’s heart weighs it down,</p>

<p>but a kind word makes it glad.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> A righteous person is cautious in friendship,</p>

<p>but the way of the wicked leads them astray.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The slothful man doesn’t roast his game,</p>

<p>but the possessions of diligent men are prized.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the way of righteousness is life;</p>

<p>in its path there is no death.</p>

</body>
</html>