<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Dead flies cause the oil of the perfumer to produce an evil odor;</p>

<p>so does a little folly outweigh wisdom and honor.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A wise man’s heart is at his right hand,</p>

<p>but a fool’s heart at his left. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yes also, when the fool walks by the way, his understanding fails him, and he says to everyone that he is a fool. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If the spirit of the ruler rises up against you, don’t leave your place; for gentleness lays great offenses to rest.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, the sort of error which proceeds from the ruler. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in a low place. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have seen servants on horses, and princes walking like servants on the earth. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He who digs a pit may fall into it; and whoever breaks through a wall may be bitten by a snake. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoever carves out stones may be injured by them. Whoever splits wood may be endangered thereby. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If the ax is blunt, and one doesn’t sharpen the edge, then he must use more strength; but skill brings success.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If the snake bites before it is charmed, then is there no profit for the charmer’s tongue. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The words of a wise man’s mouth are gracious; but a fool is swallowed by his own lips. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness; and the end of his talk is mischievous madness. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A fool also multiplies words.</p>

<p>Man doesn’t know what will be; and that which will be after him, who can tell him? <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The labor of fools wearies every one of them; for he doesn’t know how to go to the city.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Woe to you, land, when your king is a child,</p>

<p>and your princes eat in the morning! <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Happy are you, land, when your king is the son of nobles,</p>

<p>and your princes eat in due season,</p>

<p>for strength, and not for drunkenness!</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By slothfulness the roof sinks in;</p>

<p>and through idleness of the hands the house leaks.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A feast is made for laughter,</p>

<p>and wine makes the life glad;</p>

<p>and money is the answer for all things.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Don’t curse the king, no, not in your thoughts;</p>

<p>and don’t curse the rich in your bedroom:</p>

<p>for a bird of the sky may carry your voice,</p>

<p>and that which has wings may tell the matter.</p>

</body>
</html>