<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth,</p>

<p>before the evil days come, and the years draw near,</p>

<p>when you will say, “I have no pleasure in them”;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before the sun, the light, the moon, and the stars are darkened,</p>

<p>and the clouds return after the rain;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble,</p>

<p>and the strong men shall bow themselves,</p>

<p>and the grinders cease because they are few,</p>

<p>and those who look out of the windows are darkened,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and the doors shall be shut in the street;</p>

<p>when the sound of the grinding is low,</p>

<p>and one shall rise up at the voice of a bird,</p>

<p>and all the daughters of music shall be brought low;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> yes, they shall be afraid of heights,</p>

<p>and terrors will be on the way;</p>

<p>and the almond tree shall blossom,</p>

<p>and the grasshopper shall be a burden,</p>

<p>and desire shall fail;</p>

<p>because man goes to his everlasting home,</p>

<p>and the mourners go about the streets:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> before the silver cord is severed,</p>

<p>or the golden bowl is broken,</p>

<p>or the pitcher is broken at the spring,</p>

<p>or the wheel broken at the cistern,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the dust returns to the earth as it was,</p>

<p>and the spirit returns to God who gave it.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher.</p>

<p>“All is vanity!”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Further, because the Preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. Yes, he pondered, sought out, and set in order many proverbs. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The Preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written blamelessly, words of truth. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The words of the wise are like goads; and like nails well fastened are words from the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Furthermore, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the end of the matter. All has been heard. Fear God, and keep his commandments; for this is the whole duty of man. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For God will bring every work into judgment, with every hidden thing, whether it is good, or whether it is evil.</p>

</body>
</html>