<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Cast your bread on the waters;</p>

<p>for you shall find it after many days.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Give a portion to seven, yes, even to eight;</p>

<p>for you don’t know what evil will be on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth;</p>

<p>and if a tree falls toward the south, or toward the north,</p>

<p>in the place where the tree falls, there shall it be.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He who observes the wind won’t sow;</p>

<p>and he who regards the clouds won’t reap.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As you don’t know what is the way of the wind,</p>

<p>nor how the bones grow in the womb of her who is with child;</p>

<p>even so you don’t know the work of God who does all.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the morning sow your seed,</p>

<p>and in the evening don’t withhold your hand;</p>

<p>for you don’t know which will prosper, whether this or that,</p>

<p>or whether they both will be equally good.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Truly the light is sweet,</p>

<p>and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to see the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yes, if a man lives many years, let him rejoice in them all;</p>

<p>but let him remember the days of darkness, for they shall be many.</p>

<p>All that comes is vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Rejoice, young man, in your youth,</p>

<p>and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth,</p>

<p>and walk in the ways of your heart,</p>

<p>and in the sight of your eyes;</p>

<p>but know that for all these things God will bring you into judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore remove sorrow from your heart,</p>

<p>and put away evil from your flesh;</p>

<p>for youth and the dawn of life are vanity.</p>

</body>
</html>