<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Vanity of vanities,” says the Preacher; “Vanity of vanities, all is vanity.” <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> What does man gain from all his labor in which he labors under the sun? <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One generation goes, and another generation comes; but the earth remains forever. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sun also rises, and the sun goes down, and hurries to its place where it rises. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The wind goes toward the south, and turns around to the north. It turns around continually as it goes, and the wind returns again to its courses. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. To the place where the rivers flow, there they flow again. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All things are full of weariness beyond uttering. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That which has been is that which shall be; and that which has been done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Is there a thing of which it may be said, “Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> this is new?” It has been long ago, in the ages which were before us. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is no memory of the former; neither shall there be any memory of the latter that are to come, among those that shall come after.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I, the Preacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I applied my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under the sky. It is a heavy burden that God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> has given to the sons of men to be afflicted with. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and behold, all is vanity and a chasing after wind. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> That which is crooked can’t be made straight; and that which is lacking can’t be counted. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I said to myself, “Behold, I have obtained for myself great wisdom above all who were before me in Jerusalem. Yes, my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.” <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly. I perceived that this also was a chasing after wind. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For in much wisdom is much grief; and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>