<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, you are beautiful, my love.</p>

<p>Behold, you are beautiful.</p>

<p>Your eyes are doves behind your veil.</p>

<p>Your hair is as a flock of goats,</p>

<p>that descend from Mount Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Your teeth are like a newly shorn flock,</p>

<p>which have come up from the washing,</p>

<p>where every one of them has twins.</p>

<p>None is bereaved among them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Your lips are like scarlet thread.</p>

<p>Your mouth is lovely.</p>

<p>Your temples are like a piece of a pomegranate behind your veil.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Your neck is like David’s tower built for an armory,</p>

<p>whereon a thousand shields hang,</p>

<p>all the shields of the mighty men.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Your two breasts are like two fawns</p>

<p>that are twins of a roe,</p>

<p>which feed among the lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Until the day is cool, and the shadows flee away,</p>

<p>I will go to the mountain of myrrh,</p>

<p>to the hill of frankincense.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You are all beautiful, my love.</p>

<p>There is no spot in you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Come with me from Lebanon, my bride,</p>

<p>with me from Lebanon.</p>

<p>Look from the top of Amana,</p>

<p>from the top of Senir and Hermon,</p>

<p>from the lions’ dens,</p>

<p>from the mountains of the leopards.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have ravished my heart, my sister, my bride.</p>

<p>You have ravished my heart with one of your eyes,</p>

<p>with one chain of your neck.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> How beautiful is your love, my sister, my bride!</p>

<p>How much better is your love than wine!</p>

<p>The fragrance of your perfumes than all kinds of spices!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Your lips, my bride, drip like the honeycomb.</p>

<p>Honey and milk are under your tongue.</p>

<p>The smell of your garments is like the smell of Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A locked up garden is my sister, my bride;</p>

<p>a locked up spring,</p>

<p>a sealed fountain.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your shoots are an orchard of pomegranates, with precious fruits:</p>

<p>henna with spikenard plants,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> spikenard and saffron,</p>

<p>calamus and cinnamon, with every kind of incense tree;</p>

<p>myrrh and aloes, with all the best spices,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> a fountain of gardens,</p>

<p>a well of living waters,</p>

<p>flowing streams from Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Awake, north wind; and come, you south!</p>

<p>Blow on my garden, that its spices may flow out.</p>

<p>Let my beloved come into his garden,</p>

<p>and taste his precious fruits.</p>

</body>
</html>