<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By night on my bed,</p>

<p>I sought him whom my soul loves.</p>

<p>I sought him, but I didn’t find him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will get up now, and go about the city;</p>

<p>in the streets and in the squares I will seek him whom my soul loves.</p>

<p>I sought him, but I didn’t find him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The watchmen who go about the city found me;</p>

<p>“Have you seen him whom my soul loves?”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I had scarcely passed from them,</p>

<p>when I found him whom my soul loves.</p>

<p>I held him, and would not let him go,</p>

<p>until I had brought him into my mother’s house,</p>

<p>into the room of her who conceived me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem,</p>

<p>by the roes, or by the hinds of the field,</p>

<p>that you not stir up, nor awaken love,</p>

<p>until it so desires.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who is this who comes up from the wilderness like pillars of smoke,</p>

<p>perfumed with myrrh and frankincense,</p>

<p>with all spices of the merchant?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, it is Solomon’s carriage!</p>

<p>Sixty mighty men are around it,</p>

<p>of the mighty men of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They all handle the sword, and are expert in war.</p>

<p>Every man has his sword on his thigh,</p>

<p>because of fear in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> King Solomon made himself a carriage</p>

<p>of the wood of Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He made its pillars of silver,</p>

<p>its bottom of gold, its seat of purple,</p>

<p>the middle of it being paved with love,</p>

<p>from the daughters of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Go out, you daughters of Zion, and see king Solomon,</p>

<p>with the crown with which his mother has crowned him,</p>

<p>in the day of his weddings,</p>

<p>in the day of the gladness of his heart.</p>

</body>
</html>