<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I have come into my garden, my sister, my bride.</p>

<p>I have gathered my myrrh with my spice;</p>

<p>I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey;</p>

<p>I have drunk my wine with my milk.</p>

<p>Eat, friends!</p>

<p>Drink, yes, drink abundantly, beloved.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I was asleep, but my heart was awake.</p>

<p>It is the voice of my beloved who knocks:</p>

<p>“Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my undefiled;</p>

<p>for my head is filled with dew,</p>

<p>and my hair with the dampness of the night.”</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have taken off my robe. Indeed, must I put it on?</p>

<p>I have washed my feet. Indeed, must I soil them?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My beloved thrust his hand in through the latch opening.</p>

<p>My heart pounded for him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I rose up to open for my beloved.</p>

<p>My hands dripped with myrrh,</p>

<p>my fingers with liquid myrrh,</p>

<p>on the handles of the lock.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I opened to my beloved;</p>

<p>but my beloved left; and had gone away.</p>

<p>My heart went out when he spoke.</p>

<p>I looked for him, but I didn’t find him.</p>

<p>I called him, but he didn’t answer.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The watchmen who go about the city found me.</p>

<p>They beat me.</p>

<p>They bruised me.</p>

<p>The keepers of the walls took my cloak away from me.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem,</p>

<p>If you find my beloved,</p>

<p>that you tell him that I am faint with love.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> How is your beloved better than another beloved,</p>

<p>you fairest among women?</p>

<p>How is your beloved better than another beloved,</p>

<p>that you do so adjure us?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My beloved is white and ruddy.</p>

<p>The best among ten thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His head is like the purest gold.</p>

<p>His hair is bushy, black as a raven.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His eyes are like doves beside the water brooks,</p>

<p>washed with milk, mounted like jewels.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His cheeks are like a bed of spices with towers of perfumes.</p>

<p>His lips are like lilies, dropping liquid myrrh.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His hands are like rings of gold set with beryl.</p>

<p>His body is like ivory work overlaid with sapphires.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> His legs are like pillars of marble set on sockets of fine gold.</p>

<p>His appearance is like Lebanon, excellent as the cedars.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His mouth is sweetness;</p>

<p>yes, he is altogether lovely.</p>

<p>This is my beloved, and this is my friend,</p>

<p>daughters of Jerusalem.</p>

</body>
</html>