<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Where has your beloved gone, you fairest among women?</p>

<p>Where has your beloved turned, that we may seek him with you?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My beloved has gone down to his garden,</p>

<p>to the beds of spices,</p>

<p>to feed in the gardens, and to gather lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I am my beloved’s, and my beloved is mine.</p>

<p>He browses among the lilies,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You are beautiful, my love, as Tirzah,</p>

<p>lovely as Jerusalem,</p>

<p>awesome as an army with banners.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Turn away your eyes from me,</p>

<p>for they have overcome me.</p>

<p>Your hair is like a flock of goats,</p>

<p>that lie along the side of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your teeth are like a flock of ewes,</p>

<p>which have come up from the washing;</p>

<p>of which every one has twins;</p>

<p>no one is bereaved among them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your temples are like a piece of a pomegranate behind your veil.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There are sixty queens, eighty concubines,</p>

<p>and virgins without number.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My dove, my perfect one, is unique.</p>

<p>She is her mother’s only daughter.</p>

<p>She is the favorite one of her who bore her.</p>

<p>The daughters saw her, and called her blessed;</p>

<p>the queens and the concubines, and they praised her.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is she who looks out as the morning,</p>

<p>beautiful as the moon,</p>

<p>clear as the sun,</p>

<p>and awesome as an army with banners?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I went down into the nut tree grove,</p>

<p>to see the green plants of the valley,</p>

<p>to see whether the vine budded,</p>

<p>and the pomegranates were in flower.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Without realizing it,</p>

<p>my desire set me with my royal people’s chariots.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Return, return, Shulammite!</p>

<p>Return, return, that we may gaze at you.</p>

<p>Why do you desire to gaze at the Shulammite,</p>

<p>as at the dance of Mahanaim?</p>

</body>
</html>