<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am a rose of Sharon,</p>

<p>a lily of the valleys.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As a lily among thorns,</p>

<p>so is my love among the daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As the apple tree among the trees of the wood,</p>

<p>so is my beloved among the sons.</p>

<p>I sat down under his shadow with great delight,</p>

<p>his fruit was sweet to my taste.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He brought me to the banquet hall.</p>

<p>His banner over me is love.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Strengthen me with raisins,</p>

<p>refresh me with apples;</p>

<p>For I am faint with love.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His left hand is under my head.</p>

<p>His right hand embraces me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem,</p>

<p>by the roes, or by the hinds of the field,</p>

<p>that you not stir up, nor awaken love,</p>

<p>until it so desires.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The voice of my beloved!</p>

<p>Behold, he comes,</p>

<p>leaping on the mountains,</p>

<p>skipping on the hills.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My beloved is like a roe or a young deer.</p>

<p>Behold, he stands behind our wall!</p>

<p>He looks in at the windows.</p>

<p>He glances through the lattice.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My beloved spoke, and said to me,</p>

<p>“Rise up, my love, my beautiful one, and come away.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For, behold, the winter is past.</p>

<p>The rain is over and gone.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The flowers appear on the earth.</p>

<p>The time of the singing has come,</p>

<p>and the voice of the turtledove is heard in our land.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fig tree ripens her green figs.</p>

<p>The vines are in blossom.</p>

<p>They give out their fragrance.</p>

<p>Arise, my love, my beautiful one,</p>

<p>and come away.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My dove in the clefts of the rock,</p>

<p>In the hiding places of the mountainside,</p>

<p>Let me see your face.</p>

<p>Let me hear your voice;</p>

<p>for your voice is sweet, and your face is lovely.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Catch for us the foxes,</p>

<p>the little foxes that plunder the vineyards;</p>

<p>for our vineyards are in blossom.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My beloved is mine, and I am his.</p>

<p>He browses among the lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Until the day is cool, and the shadows flee away,</p>

<p>turn, my beloved,</p>

<p>and be like a roe or a young deer on the mountains of Bether.</p>

</body>
</html>