<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> How beautiful are your feet in sandals, prince’s daughter!</p>

<p>Your rounded thighs are like jewels,</p>

<p>the work of the hands of a skillful workman.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Your body is like a round goblet,</p>

<p>no mixed wine is wanting.</p>

<p>Your waist is like a heap of wheat,</p>

<p>set about with lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Your two breasts are like two fawns,</p>

<p>that are twins of a roe.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Your neck is like an ivory tower.</p>

<p>Your eyes are like the pools in Heshbon by the gate of Bathrabbim.</p>

<p>Your nose is like the tower of Lebanon which looks toward Damascus.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Your head on you is like Carmel.</p>

<p>The hair of your head like purple.</p>

<p>The king is held captive in its tresses.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> How beautiful and how pleasant you are,</p>

<p>love, for delights!</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> This, your stature, is like a palm tree,</p>

<p>your breasts like its fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I said, “I will climb up into the palm tree.</p>

<p>I will take hold of its fruit.”</p>

<p>Let your breasts be like clusters of the vine,</p>

<p>the smell of your breath like apples,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Your mouth like the best wine,</p>

<p>that goes down smoothly for my beloved,</p>

<p>gliding through the lips of those who are asleep.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I am my beloved’s.</p>

<p>His desire is toward me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Come, my beloved, let us go out into the field.</p>

<p>Let us lodge in the villages.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let’s go early up to the vineyards.</p>

<p>Let’s see whether the vine has budded,</p>

<p>its blossom is open,</p>

<p>and the pomegranates are in flower.</p>

<p>There I will give you my love.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The mandrakes produce fragrance.</p>

<p>At our doors are all kinds of precious fruits, new and old,</p>

<p>which I have stored up for you, my beloved.</p>

</body>
</html>