<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh that you were like my brother,</p>

<p>who nursed from the breasts of my mother!</p>

<p>If I found you outside, I would kiss you;</p>

<p>yes, and no one would despise me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I would lead you, bringing you into my mother’s house,</p>

<p>who would instruct me.</p>

<p>I would have you drink spiced wine,</p>

<p>of the juice of my pomegranate.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His left hand would be under my head.</p>

<p>His right hand would embrace me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I adjure you, daughters of Jerusalem,</p>

<p>that you not stir up, nor awaken love,</p>

<p>until it so desires.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who is this who comes up from the wilderness,</p>

<p>leaning on her beloved?</p>

<p>Under the apple tree I aroused you.</p>

<p>There your mother conceived you.</p>

<p>There she was in labor and bore you.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Set me as a seal on your heart,</p>

<p>as a seal on your arm;</p>

<p>for love is strong as death.</p>

<p>Jealousy is as cruel as Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>Its flashes are flashes of fire,</p>

<p>a very flame of Yahweh.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Many waters can’t quench love,</p>

<p>neither can floods drown it.</p>

<p>If a man would give all the wealth of his house for love,</p>

<p>he would be utterly scorned.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> We have a little sister.</p>

<p>She has no breasts.</p>

<p>What shall we do for our sister</p>

<p>in the day when she is to be spoken for?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If she is a wall,</p>

<p>we will build on her a turret of silver.</p>

<p>if she is a door,</p>

<p>we will enclose her with boards of cedar.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I am a wall, and my breasts like towers,</p>

<p>then I was in his eyes like one who found peace.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Solomon had a vineyard at Baal Hamon.</p>

<p>He leased out the vineyard to keepers.</p>

<p>Each was to bring a thousand shekels<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> of silver for its fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My own vineyard is before me.</p>

<p>The thousand are for you, Solomon;</p>

<p>two hundred for those who tend its fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You who dwell in the gardens, with friends in attendance,</p>

<p>let me hear your voice!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Come away, my beloved!</p>

<p>Be like a gazelle or a young stag on the mountains of spices!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead. </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces, so 1000 shekels is about 10 kilograms or about 22 pounds.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>