<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Song of songs, which is Solomon’s.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth;</p>

<p>for your love is better than wine.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Your oils have a pleasing fragrance.</p>

<p>Your name is oil poured out,</p>

<p>therefore the virgins love you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Take me away with you.</p>

<p>Let us hurry.</p>

<p>The king has brought me into his rooms.</p>

<p>We will be glad and rejoice in you.</p>

<p>We will praise your love more than wine!</p>

<p>They are right to love you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I am dark, but lovely,</p>

<p>you daughters of Jerusalem,</p>

<p>like Kedar’s tents,</p>

<p>like Solomon’s curtains.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Don’t stare at me because I am dark,</p>

<p>because the sun has scorched me.</p>

<p>My mother’s sons were angry with me.</p>

<p>They made me keeper of the vineyards.</p>

<p>I haven’t kept my own vineyard.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Tell me, you whom my soul loves,</p>

<p>where you graze your flock,</p>

<p>where you rest them at noon;</p>

<p>For why should I be as one who is veiled</p>

<p>beside the flocks of your companions?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If you don’t know, most beautiful among women,</p>

<p>follow the tracks of the sheep.</p>

<p>Graze your young goats beside the shepherds’ tents.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have compared you, my love,</p>

<p>to a steed in Pharaoh’s chariots.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Your cheeks are beautiful with earrings,</p>

<p>your neck with strings of jewels.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> We will make you earrings of gold,</p>

<p>with studs of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While the king sat at his table,</p>

<p>my perfume spread its fragrance.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> My beloved is to me a sachet of myrrh,</p>

<p>that lies between my breasts.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My beloved is to me a cluster of henna blossoms</p>

<p>from the vineyards of En Gedi.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> you are beautiful, my love.</p>

<p>Behold, you are beautiful.</p>

<p>Your eyes are doves.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, you are beautiful, my beloved, yes, pleasant;</p>

<p>and our couch is verdant.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The beams of our house are cedars.</p>

<p>Our rafters are firs.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>