<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 52</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 52</h2>

<p><a id="c52_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Awake, awake! Put on your strength, Zion.</p>

<p>Put on your beautiful garments, Jerusalem, the holy city:</p>

<p>for from now on the uncircumcised and the unclean will no more come into you.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Shake yourself from the dust!</p>

<p>Arise, sit up, Jerusalem!</p>

<p>Release yourself from the bonds of your neck, captive daughter of Zion!</p>

<p><a id="c52_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Yahweh says, “You were sold for nothing;</p>

<p>and you will be redeemed without money.”</p>

<p><a id="c52_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>“My people went down at the first into Egypt to live there:</p>

<p>and the Assyrian has oppressed them without cause.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Now therefore, what do I do here,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“seeing that my people are taken away for nothing?</p>

<p>Those who rule over them mock,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“and my name is blasphemed continually all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore my people shall know my name.</p>

<p>Therefore they shall know in that day that I am he who speaks.</p>

<p>Behold, it is I.”</p>

<p><a id="c52_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> How beautiful on the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news,</p>

<p>who publishes peace,</p>

<p>who brings good news,</p>

<p>who proclaims salvation,</p>

<p>who says to Zion, “Your God reigns!”</p>

<p><a id="c52_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Your watchmen lift up their voice,</p>

<p>together they sing;</p>

<p>for they shall see eye to eye, when Yahweh returns to Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Break out into joy,</p>

<p>sing together, you waste places of Jerusalem;</p>

<p>for Yahweh has comforted his people.</p>

<p>He has redeemed Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yahweh has made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations;</p>

<p>and all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Depart, depart, go out from there; touch no unclean thing!</p>

<p>Go out from among her!</p>

<p>Cleanse yourselves, you who carry Yahweh’s vessels.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For you shall not go out in haste,</p>

<p>neither shall you go by flight:</p>

<p>for Yahweh will go before you;</p>

<p>and the God of Israel will be your rear guard.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, my servant will deal wisely.</p>

<p>He will be exalted and lifted up,</p>

<p>and will be very high.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Just as many were astonished at you</p>

<p>(his appearance was marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men),</p>

<p><a id="c52_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> so he will cleanse<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> many nations.</p>

<p>Kings will shut their mouths at him:</p>

<p>for they will see that which had not been told them;</p>

<p>and they will understand that which they had not heard.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, sprinkle</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>