<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 47</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 47</h2>

<p><a id="c47_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Come down, and sit in the dust, virgin daughter of Babylon.</p>

<p>Sit on the ground without a throne, daughter of the Chaldeans.</p>

<p>For you will no longer be called tender and delicate.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take the millstones, and grind flour.</p>

<p>Remove your veil, lift up your skirt, uncover your legs,</p>

<p>and wade through the rivers.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Your nakedness will be uncovered.</p>

<p>Yes, your shame will be seen.</p>

<p>I will take vengeance,</p>

<p>and will spare no one.”</p>

<p><a id="c47_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Our Redeemer, Yahweh of Armies is his name,</p>

<p>is the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Sit in silence, and go into darkness,</p>

<p>daughter of the Chaldeans.</p>

<p>For you shall no longer be called</p>

<p>the mistress of kingdoms.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I was angry with my people.</p>

<p>I profaned my inheritance,</p>

<p>and gave them into your hand.</p>

<p>You showed them no mercy.</p>

<p>You laid a very heavy yoke on the aged.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You said, ‘I will be a princess forever;’</p>

<p>so that you did not lay these things to your heart,</p>

<p>nor did you remember the results.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Now therefore hear this, you who are given to pleasures,</p>

<p>who sit securely,</p>

<p>who say in your heart,</p>

<p>‘I am, and there is no one else besides me.</p>

<p>I shall not sit as a widow,</p>

<p>neither shall I know the loss of children.’</p>

<p><a id="c47_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But these two things shall come to you in a moment in one day,</p>

<p>the loss of children and widowhood.</p>

<p>They will come on you in their full measure,</p>

<p>in the multitude of your sorceries,</p>

<p>and the great abundance of your enchantments.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For you have trusted in your wickedness.</p>

<p>You have said, ‘No one sees me.’</p>

<p>Your wisdom and your knowledge has perverted you.</p>

<p>You have said in your heart, ‘I am, and there is no one else besides me.’</p>

<p><a id="c47_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore disaster will come on you.</p>

<p>You won’t know when it dawns.</p>

<p>Mischief will fall on you.</p>

<p>You won’t be able to put it away.</p>

<p>Desolation will come on you suddenly,</p>

<p>which you don’t understand.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Stand now with your enchantments,</p>

<p>and with the multitude of your sorceries,</p>

<p>in which you have labored from your youth;</p>

<p>as if you might profit;</p>

<p>as if you might prevail.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You are wearied in the multitude of your counsels.</p>

<p>Now let the astrologers, the stargazers, and the monthly prognosticators, stand up and save you from the things that will come on you.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, they are like stubble.</p>

<p>The fire will burn them.</p>

<p>They won’t deliver themselves from the power of the flame.</p>

<p>It won’t be a coal to warm at</p>

<p>or a fire to sit by.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The things that you labored in will be like this:</p>

<p>those who have trafficked with you from your youth will each wander in his own way.</p>

<p>There will be no one to save you.</p>

</body>
</html>