<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to you who destroy, but you weren’t destroyed;</p>

<p>and who betray, but nobody betrayed you!</p>

<p>When you have finished destroying, you will be destroyed;</p>

<p>and when you have finished betrayal, you will be betrayed.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh, be gracious to us. We have waited for you.</p>

<p>Be our strength every morning,</p>

<p>our salvation also in the time of trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> At the noise of the thunder, the peoples have fled.</p>

<p>When you lift yourself up, the nations are scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Your plunder will be gathered as the caterpillar gathers.</p>

<p>Men will leap on it as locusts leap.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yahweh is exalted, for he dwells on high.</p>

<p>He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> There will be stability in your times, abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge.</p>

<p>The fear of Yahweh is your treasure.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, their valiant ones cry outside;</p>

<p>the ambassadors of peace weep bitterly.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The highways are desolate.</p>

<p>The traveling man ceases.</p>

<p>The covenant is broken.</p>

<p>He has despised the cities.</p>

<p>He doesn’t respect man.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The land mourns and languishes.</p>

<p>Lebanon is confounded and withers away.</p>

<p>Sharon is like a desert, and Bashan and Carmel are stripped bare.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Now I will arise,” says Yahweh;</p>

<p>“Now I will lift myself up.</p>

<p>Now I will be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You will conceive chaff.</p>

<p>You will give birth to stubble.</p>

<p>Your breath is a fire that will devour you.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The peoples will be like the burning of lime,</p>

<p>like thorns that are cut down and burned in the fire.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hear, you who are far off, what I have done;</p>

<p>and, you who are near, acknowledge my might.”</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sinners in Zion are afraid.</p>

<p>Trembling has seized the godless ones.</p>

<p>Who among us can live with the devouring fire?</p>

<p>Who among us can live with everlasting burning?</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He who walks righteously,</p>

<p>and speaks blamelessly;</p>

<p>He who despises the gain of oppressions,</p>

<p>who gestures with his hands, refusing to take a bribe,</p>

<p>who stops his ears from hearing of blood,</p>

<p>and shuts his eyes from looking at evil—</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> he will dwell on high.</p>

<p>His place of defense will be the fortress of rocks.</p>

<p>His bread will be supplied.</p>

<p>His waters will be sure.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Your eyes will see the king in his beauty.</p>

<p>They will see a distant land.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Your heart will meditate on the terror.</p>

<p>Where is he who counted?</p>

<p>Where is he who weighed?</p>

<p>Where is he who counted the towers?</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You will no longer see the fierce people,</p>

<p>a people of a deep speech that you can’t comprehend,</p>

<p>with a strange language that you can’t understand.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Look at Zion, the city of our appointed festivals.</p>

<p>Your eyes will see Jerusalem, a quiet habitation,</p>

<p>a tent that won’t be removed.</p>

<p>Its stakes will never be plucked up,</p>

<p>nor will any of its cords be broken.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But there Yahweh will be with us in majesty,</p>

<p>a place of wide rivers and streams,</p>

<p>in which no galley with oars will go,</p>

<p>neither will any gallant ship pass by there.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For Yahweh is our judge.</p>

<p>Yahweh is our lawgiver.</p>

<p>Yahweh is our king.</p>

<p>He will save us.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Your rigging is untied.</p>

<p>They couldn’t strengthen the foot of their mast.</p>

<p>They couldn’t spread the sail.</p>

<p>Then the prey of a great plunder was divided.</p>

<p>The lame took the prey.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The inhabitant won’t say, “I am sick.”</p>

<p>The people who dwell therein will be forgiven their iniquity.</p>

</body>
</html>