<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 62</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 62</h2>

<p><a id="c62_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For Zion’s sake will I not hold my peace,</p>

<p>and for Jerusalem’s sake I will not rest,</p>

<p>until her righteousness shines out like the dawn,</p>

<p>and her salvation like a burning lamp.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The nations will see your righteousness,</p>

<p>and all kings your glory,</p>

<p>and you will be called by a new name,</p>

<p>which Yahweh‘s mouth will name.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You will also be a crown of beauty in Yahweh‘s hand,</p>

<p>and a royal diadem in your God‘s hand.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You will not be called Forsaken any more;</p>

<p>nor will your land be called Desolate any more:</p>

<p>but you will be called Hephzibah,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>and your land Beulah;<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>for Yahweh delights in you,</p>

<p>and your land will be married.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For as a young man marries a virgin,</p>

<p>so your sons will marry you.</p>

<p>As a bridegroom rejoices over his bride,</p>

<p>so your God will rejoice over you.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have set watchmen on your walls, Jerusalem.</p>

<p>They will never be silent day nor night.</p>

<p>You who call on Yahweh, take no rest,</p>

<p><a id="c62_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and give him no rest, until he establishes,</p>

<p>and until he makes Jerusalem a praise in the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh has sworn by his right hand,</p>

<p>and by the arm of his strength,</p>

<p>“Surely I will no more give your grain to be food for your enemies;</p>

<p>and foreigners will not drink your new wine, for which you have labored;</p>

<p><a id="c62_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but those who have harvested it will eat it, and praise Yahweh;</p>

<p>and those who have gathered it will drink it in the courts of my sanctuary.”</p>

<p><a id="c62_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Go through, go through the gates!</p>

<p>Prepare the way of the people!</p>

<p>Build up, build up the highway!</p>

<p>Gather out the stones!</p>

<p>Lift up a banner for the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, Yahweh has proclaimed to the end of the earth,</p>

<p>“Say to the daughter of Zion,</p>

<p>‘Behold, your salvation comes.</p>

<p>Behold, his reward is with him,</p>

<p>and his recompense before him.’”</p>

<p><a id="c62_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They will call them The holy people,</p>

<p>Yahweh’s redeemed.</p>

<p>You will be called Sought out,</p>

<p>A city not forsaken.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hephibah means “I delight in her”.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Beulah means “married”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>