<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day, Yahweh with his hard and great and strong sword will punish leviathan, the fleeing serpent, and leviathan the twisted serpent; and he will kill the dragon that is in the sea. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In that day, sing to her, “A pleasant vineyard! <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I, Yahweh, am its keeper. I will water it every moment. Lest anyone damage it, I will keep it night and day. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wrath is not in me, but if I should find briers and thorns, I would do battle! I would march on them and I would burn them together. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or else let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me. Let him make peace with me.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In days to come, Jacob will take root. Israel will blossom and bud. They will fill the surface of the world with fruit. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Has he struck them as he struck those who struck them? Or are they killed like those who killed them were killed? <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In measure, when you send them away, you contend with them. He has removed them with his rough blast in the day of the east wind. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore by this the iniquity of Jacob will be forgiven, and this is all the fruit of taking away his sin: that he makes all the stones of the altar as chalk stones that are beaten in pieces, so that the Asherah poles and the incense altars shall rise no more. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken, like the wilderness. The calf will feed there, and there he will lie down, and consume its branches. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When its boughs are withered, they will be broken off. The women will come and set them on fire, for they are a people of no understanding. Therefore he who made them will not have compassion on them, and he who formed them will show them no favor. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It will happen in that day, that Yahweh will thresh from the flowing stream of the Euphrates to the brook of Egypt; and you will be gathered one by one, children of Israel. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> It will happen in that day that a great trumpet will be blown; and those who were ready to perish in the land of Assyria, and those who were outcasts in the land of Egypt, shall come; and they will worship Yahweh in the holy mountain at Jerusalem.</p>

</body>
</html>