<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness,</p>

<p>and princes shall rule in justice.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A man shall be as a hiding place from the wind,</p>

<p>and a covert from the storm,</p>

<p>as streams of water in a dry place,</p>

<p>as the shade of a large rock in a weary land.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The eyes of those who see will not be dim,</p>

<p>and the ears of those who hear will listen.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The heart of the rash will understand knowledge,</p>

<p>and the tongue of the stammerers will be ready to speak plainly.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The fool will no longer be called noble,</p>

<p>nor the scoundrel be highly respected.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the fool will speak folly,</p>

<p>and his heart will work iniquity,</p>

<p>to practice profanity,</p>

<p>and to utter error against Yahweh,</p>

<p>To make empty the soul of the hungry,</p>

<p>and to cause the drink of the thirsty to fail.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The ways of the scoundrel are evil.</p>

<p>He devises wicked devices to destroy the humble with lying words,</p>

<p>even when the needy speaks right.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But the noble devises noble things;</p>

<p>and he will continue in noble things.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Rise up, you women who are at ease! Hear my voice!</p>

<p>You careless daughters, give ear to my speech!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For days beyond a year you will be troubled, you careless women;</p>

<p>for the vintage shall fail.</p>

<p>The harvest won’t come.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Tremble, you women who are at ease!</p>

<p>Be troubled, you careless ones!</p>

<p>Strip yourselves, make yourselves naked,</p>

<p>and put sackcloth on your waist.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields,</p>

<p>for the fruitful vine.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thorns and briers will come up on my people’s land;</p>

<p>yes, on all the houses of joy in the joyous city.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the palace will be forsaken.</p>

<p>The populous city will be deserted.</p>

<p>The hill and the watchtower will be for dens forever,</p>

<p>a delight for wild donkeys,</p>

<p>a pasture of flocks;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Until the Spirit is poured on us from on high,</p>

<p>and the wilderness becomes a fruitful field,</p>

<p>and the fruitful field is considered a forest.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then justice will dwell in the wilderness;</p>

<p>and righteousness will remain in the fruitful field.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The work of righteousness will be peace;</p>

<p>and the effect of righteousness, quietness and confidence forever.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> My people will live in a peaceful habitation,</p>

<p>in safe dwellings,</p>

<p>and in quiet resting places.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Though hail flattens the forest,</p>

<p>and the city is leveled completely.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Blessed are you who sow beside all waters,</p>

<p>who send out the feet of the ox and the donkey.</p>

</body>
</html>