<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In those days was Hezekiah sick and near death. Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, came to him, and said to him, “Yahweh says, ‘Set your house in order, for you will die, and not live.’”</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to Yahweh, <a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and said, “Remember now, Yahweh, I beg you, how I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in your sight.” Hezekiah wept bitterly.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then Yahweh’s word came to Isaiah, saying, <a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Go, and tell Hezekiah, ‘Yahweh says, the God of David your father, “I have heard your prayer. I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your life. <a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria, and I will defend this city. <a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> This shall be the sign to you from Yahweh, that Yahweh will do this thing that he has spoken. <a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, I will cause the shadow on the sundial, which has gone down on the sundial of Ahaz with the sun, to return backward ten steps. So the sun returned ten steps on the sundial on which it had gone down.”’”</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when he had been sick, and had recovered of his sickness.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I said, “In the middle of my life I go into the gates of Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>I am deprived of the residue of my years.”</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I said, “I won’t see Yah,</p>

<p>Yah in the land of the living.</p>

<p>I will see man no more with the inhabitants of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My dwelling is removed,</p>

<p>and is carried away from me like a shepherd’s tent.</p>

<p>I have rolled up, like a weaver, my life.</p>

<p>He will cut me off from the loom.</p>

<p>From day even to night you will make an end of me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I waited patiently until morning.</p>

<p>He breaks all my bones like a lion.</p>

<p>From day even to night you will make an end of me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I chattered like a swallow or a crane.</p>

<p>I moaned like a dove.</p>

<p>My eyes weaken looking upward.</p>

<p>Lord, I am oppressed.</p>

<p>Be my security.”</p>

<p><a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What will I say?</p>

<p>He has both spoken to me, and himself has done it.</p>

<p>I will walk carefully all my years because of the anguish of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lord, men live by these things;</p>

<p>and my spirit finds life in all of them:</p>

<p>you restore me, and cause me to live.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Behold, for peace I had great anguish,</p>

<p>but you have in love for my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption;</p>

<p>for you have cast all my sins behind your back.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> can’t praise you.</p>

<p>Death can’t celebrate you.</p>

<p>Those who go down into the pit can’t hope for your truth.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The living, the living, he shall praise you, as I do today.</p>

<p>The father shall make known your truth to the children.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yahweh will save me.</p>

<p>Therefore we will sing my songs with stringed instruments all the days of our life in Yahweh’s house.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now Isaiah had said, “Let them take a cake of figs, and lay it for a poultice on the boil, and he shall recover.” <a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hezekiah also had said, “What is the sign that I will go up to Yahweh’s house?”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>