<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 63</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 63</h2>

<p><a id="c63_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who is this who comes from Edom,</p>

<p>with dyed garments from Bozrah?</p>

<p>Who this who is glorious in his clothing,</p>

<p>marching in the greatness of his strength?</p>

<p>“It is I who speak in righteousness,</p>

<p>mighty to save.”</p>

<p><a id="c63_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Why is your clothing red,</p>

<p>and your garments like him who treads in the wine vat?</p>

<p><a id="c63_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “I have trodden the wine press alone;</p>

<p>and of the peoples, no one was with me:</p>

<p>Yes, I trod them in my anger,</p>

<p>and trampled them in my wrath.</p>

<p>Their lifeblood is sprinkled on my garments,</p>

<p>and I have stained all my clothing.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the day of vengeance was in my heart,</p>

<p>and the year of my redeemed has come.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I looked, and there was no one to help;</p>

<p>and I wondered that there was no one to uphold:</p>

<p>therefore my own arm brought salvation to me;</p>

<p>and my own wrath upheld me.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I trod down the peoples in my anger,</p>

<p>and made them drunk in my wrath,</p>

<p>and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth.”</p>

<p><a id="c63_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will tell of the loving kindnesses of Yahweh</p>

<p>and the praises of Yahweh,</p>

<p>according to all that Yahweh has given to us,</p>

<p>and the great goodness toward the house of Israel,</p>

<p>which he has given to them according to his mercies,</p>

<p>and according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he said, “Surely, they are my people,</p>

<p>children who will not deal falsely;”</p>

<p>so he became their Savior.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In all their affliction he was afflicted,</p>

<p>and the angel of his presence saved them.</p>

<p>In his love and in his pity he redeemed them.</p>

<p>He bore them,</p>

<p>and carried them all the days of old.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But they rebelled,</p>

<p>and grieved his holy Spirit.</p>

<p>Therefore he turned and became their enemy,</p>

<p>and he himself fought against them.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then he remembered the days of old,</p>

<p>Moses and his people, saying,</p>

<p>“Where is he who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock?</p>

<p>Where is he who put his Holy Spirit among them?”</p>

<p><a id="c63_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who caused his glorious arm to be at Moses’ right hand?</p>

<p>Who divided the waters before them, to make himself an everlasting name?</p>

<p><a id="c63_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who led them through the depths,</p>

<p>like a horse in the wilderness,</p>

<p>so that they didn’t stumble?</p>

<p><a id="c63_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As the livestock that go down into the valley,</p>

<p>Yahweh’s Spirit caused them to rest.</p>

<p>So you led your people, to make yourself a glorious name.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Look down from heaven,</p>

<p>and see from the habitation of your holiness and of your glory.</p>

<p>Where are your zeal and your mighty acts?</p>

<p>The yearning of your heart and your compassion is restrained toward me.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For you are our Father,</p>

<p>though Abraham doesn’t know us,</p>

<p>and Israel does not acknowledge us.</p>

<p>You, Yahweh, are our Father.</p>

<p>Our Redeemer from everlasting is your name.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> O Yahweh, why do you make us wander from your ways,</p>

<p>and harden our heart from your fear?</p>

<p>Return for your servants’ sake,</p>

<p>the tribes of your inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Your holy people possessed it but a little while.</p>

<p>Our adversaries have trodden down your sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c63_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> We have become like those over whom you never ruled,</p>

<p>like those who were not called by your name.</p>

</body>
</html>