<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 54</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 54</h2>

<p><a id="c54_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Sing, barren, you who didn’t give birth;</p>

<p>break out into singing, and cry aloud, you who did not travail with child:</p>

<p>for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Enlarge the place of your tent,</p>

<p>and let them stretch out the curtains of your habitations;</p>

<p>don’t spare: lengthen your cords, and strengthen your stakes.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For you will spread out on the right hand and on the left;</p>

<p>and your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> will possess the nations,</p>

<p>and settle in desolate cities.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Don’t be afraid; for you will not be ashamed.</p>

<p>Don’t be confounded; for you will not be disappointed.</p>

<p>For you will forget the shame of your youth;</p>

<p>and the reproach of your widowhood you shall remember no more.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For your Maker is your husband; Yahweh of Armies is his name.</p>

<p>The Holy One of Israel is your Redeemer.</p>

<p>He will be called the God of the whole earth.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For Yahweh has called you as a wife forsaken and grieved in spirit,</p>

<p>even a wife of youth, when she is cast off,” says your God.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “For a small moment I have forsaken you;</p>

<p>but with great mercies will I gather you.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In overflowing wrath I hid my face from you for a moment;</p>

<p>but with everlasting loving kindness I will have mercy on you,” says Yahweh your Redeemer.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “For this is like the waters of Noah to me;</p>

<p>for as I have sworn that the waters of Noah will no more go over the earth,</p>

<p>so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you, nor rebuke you.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the mountains may depart,</p>

<p>and the hills be removed;</p>

<p>but my loving kindness will not depart from you,</p>

<p>and my covenant of peace will not be removed,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh who has mercy on you.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “You afflicted, tossed with storms, and not comforted,</p>

<p>behold, I will set your stones in beautiful colors,</p>

<p>and lay your foundations with sapphires.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will make your pinnacles of rubies,</p>

<p>your gates of sparkling jewels,</p>

<p>and all your walls of precious stones.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> All your children will be taught by Yahweh;</p>

<p>and your children’s peace will be great.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In righteousness you will be established.</p>

<p>You will be far from oppression,</p>

<p>for you will not be afraid;</p>

<p>and far from terror,</p>

<p>for it shall not come near you.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, they may gather together, but not by me.</p>

<p>Whoever gathers together against you will fall because of you.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Behold, I have created the blacksmith who fans the coals into flame,</p>

<p>and forges a weapon for his work;</p>

<p>and I have created the destroyer to destroy.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> No weapon that is formed against you will prevail;</p>

<p>and you will condemn every tongue that rises against you in judgment.</p>

<p>This is the heritage of Yahweh’s servants,</p>

<p>and their righteousness is of me,” says Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>