<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 65</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 65</h2>

<p><a id="c65_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “I am inquired of by those who didn’t ask.</p>

<p>I am found by those who didn’t seek me.</p>

<p>I said, ‘See me, see me,’ to a nation that was not called by my name.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have spread out my hands all day to a rebellious people,</p>

<p>who walk in a way that is not good,</p>

<p>after their own thoughts;</p>

<p><a id="c65_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> a people who provoke me to my face continually,</p>

<p>sacrificing in gardens,</p>

<p>and burning incense on bricks;</p>

<p><a id="c65_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who sit among the graves,</p>

<p>and spend nights in secret places;</p>

<p>who eat pig’s meat,</p>

<p>and broth of abominable things is in their vessels;</p>

<p><a id="c65_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> who say, ‘Stay by yourself,</p>

<p>don’t come near to me,</p>

<p>for I am holier than you.’</p>

<p>These are smoke in my nose,</p>

<p>a fire that burns all day.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Behold, it is written before me:</p>

<p>I will not keep silence,</p>

<p>but will repay,</p>

<p>yes, I will repay into their bosom,</p>

<p><a id="c65_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> your own iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together”, says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“who have burned incense on the mountains,</p>

<p>and blasphemed me on the hills.</p>

<p>Therefore I will first measure their work into their bosom.”</p>

<p><a id="c65_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“As the new wine is found in the cluster,</p>

<p>and one says, ‘Don’t destroy it, for a blessing is in it:’</p>

<p>so will I do for my servants’ sake,</p>

<p>that I may not destroy them all.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will bring offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> out of Jacob,</p>

<p>and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains.</p>

<p>My chosen will inherit it,</p>

<p>and my servants will dwell there.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Sharon will be a fold of flocks,</p>

<p>and the valley of Achor a place for herds to lie down in,</p>

<p>for my people who have sought me.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “But you who forsake Yahweh,</p>

<p>who forget my holy mountain,</p>

<p>who prepare a table for Fortune,</p>

<p>and who fill up mixed wine to Destiny;</p>

<p><a id="c65_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will destine you to the sword,</p>

<p>and you will all bow down to the slaughter;</p>

<p>because when I called, you didn’t answer.</p>

<p>When I spoke, you didn’t listen;</p>

<p>but you did that which was evil in my eyes,</p>

<p>and chose that in which I didn’t delight.”</p>

<p><a id="c65_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh,</p>

<p>“Behold, my servants will eat,</p>

<p>but you will be hungry;</p>

<p>behold, my servants will drink,</p>

<p>but you will be thirsty.</p>

<p>Behold, my servants will rejoice,</p>

<p>but you will be disappointed;</p>

<p><a id="c65_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, my servants will sing for joy of heart,</p>

<p>but you will cry for sorrow of heart,</p>

<p>and will wail for anguish of spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You will leave your name for a curse to my chosen;</p>

<p>and the Lord Yahweh will kill you.</p>

<p>He will call his servants by another name,</p>

<p><a id="c65_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> so that he who blesses himself in the earth will bless himself in the God of truth;</p>

<p>and he who swears in the earth will swear by the God of truth;</p>

<p>because the former troubles are forgotten,</p>

<p>and because they are hidden from my eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth;</p>

<p>and the former things will not be remembered,</p>

<p>nor come into mind.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create;</p>

<p>for, behold, I create Jerusalem to be a delight,</p>

<p>and her people a joy.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I will rejoice in Jerusalem,</p>

<p>and delight in my people;</p>

<p>and the voice of weeping and the voice of crying</p>

<p>will be heard in her no more.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “No more will there be an infant who only lives a few days,</p>

<p>nor an old man who has not filled his days;</p>

<p>for the child will die one hundred years old,</p>

<p>and the sinner being one hundred years old will be accursed.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They will build houses, and inhabit them.</p>

<p>They will plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They will not build, and another inhabit.</p>

<p>They will not plant, and another eat:</p>

<p>for the days of my people will be like the days of a tree,</p>

<p>and my chosen will long enjoy the work of their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They will not labor in vain,</p>

<p>nor give birth for calamity;</p>

<p>for they are the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of Yahweh’s blessed,</p>

<p>and their descendants with them.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> It will happen that, before they call, I will answer;</p>

<p>and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The wolf and the lamb will feed together,</p>

<p>and the lion will eat straw like the ox.</p>

<p>Dust will be the serpent’s food.</p>

<p>They will not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>