<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to those who go down to Egypt for help,</p>

<p>and rely on horses,</p>

<p>and trust in chariots because they are many,</p>

<p>and in horsemen because they are very strong,</p>

<p>but they don’t look to the Holy One of Israel,</p>

<p>and they don’t seek Yahweh!</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yet he also is wise, and will bring disaster,</p>

<p>and will not call back his words, but will arise against the house of the evildoers,</p>

<p>and against the help of those who work iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now the Egyptians are men, and not God;</p>

<p>and their horses flesh, and not spirit.</p>

<p>When Yahweh stretches out his hand, both he who helps shall stumble,</p>

<p>and he who is helped shall fall,</p>

<p>and they all shall be consumed together.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Yahweh says to me,</p>

<p>“As the lion and the young lion growling over his prey,</p>

<p>if a multitude of shepherds is called together against him,</p>

<p>will not be dismayed at their voice,</p>

<p>nor abase himself for their noise,</p>

<p>so Yahweh of Armies will come down to fight on Mount Zion and on its heights.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As birds hovering, so Yahweh of Armies will protect Jerusalem.</p>

<p>He will protect and deliver it.</p>

<p>He will pass over and preserve it.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Return to him from whom you have deeply revolted, children of Israel. <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For in that day everyone shall cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold—sin which your own hands have made for you.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “The Assyrian will fall by the sword, not of man;</p>

<p>and the sword, not of mankind, shall devour him.</p>

<p>He will flee from the sword,</p>

<p>and his young men will become subject to forced labor.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> His rock will pass away by reason of terror,</p>

<p>and his princes will be afraid of the banner,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh, whose fire is in Zion,</p>

<p>and his furnace in Jerusalem.</p>

</body>
</html>