<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 48</h2>

<p><a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Hear this, house of Jacob,</p>

<p>you who are called by the name of Israel,</p>

<p>and have come out of the waters of Judah.</p>

<p>You swear by Yahweh’s name,</p>

<p>and make mention of the God of Israel,</p>

<p>but not in truth, nor in righteousness</p>

<p><a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (for they call themselves citizens of the holy city,</p>

<p>and rely on the God of Israel;</p>

<p>Yahweh of Armies is his name):</p>

<p><a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have declared the former things from of old;</p>

<p>yes, they went out of my mouth, and I revealed them.</p>

<p>I did them suddenly, and they happened.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because I knew that you are obstinate,</p>

<p>and your neck is an iron sinew,</p>

<p>and your brow brass;</p>

<p><a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> therefore I have declared it to you from of old;</p>

<p>before it came to pass I showed it to you;</p>

<p>lest you should say, ‘My idol has done them, and my engraved image, and my molten image, has commanded them.’</p>

<p><a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You have heard it;</p>

<p>see all this.</p>

<p>And you, won’t you declare it?</p>

<p>“I have shown you new things from this time,</p>

<p>even hidden things, which you have not known.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are created now, and not from of old;</p>

<p>and before today you didn’t hear them;</p>

<p>lest you should say, ‘Behold, I knew them.’</p>

<p><a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yes, you didn’t hear;</p>

<p>yes, you didn’t know;</p>

<p>yes, from of old your ear was not opened:</p>

<p>for I knew that you dealt very treacherously,</p>

<p>and were called a transgressor from the womb.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For my name’s sake, I will defer my anger,</p>

<p>and for my praise I hold it back for you,</p>

<p>so that I don’t cut you off.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, I have refined you,</p>

<p>but not as silver.</p>

<p>I have chosen you in the furnace of affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For my own sake,</p>

<p>for my own sake, I will do it;</p>

<p>for how would my name be profaned?</p>

<p>I will not give my glory to another.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Listen to me, O Jacob,</p>

<p>and Israel my called:</p>

<p>I am he;</p>

<p>I am the first,</p>

<p>I am also the last.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yes, my hand has laid the foundation of the earth,</p>

<p>and my right hand has spread out the heavens.</p>

<p>when I call to them, they stand up together.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Assemble yourselves, all of you, and hear;</p>

<p>who among them has declared these things?</p>

<p>He whom Yahweh loves will do what he likes to Babylon,</p>

<p>and his arm will be against the Chaldeans.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I, even I, have spoken;</p>

<p>yes, I have called him.</p>

<p>I have brought him,</p>

<p>and he shall make his way prosperous.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Come near to me and hear this:</p>

<p>“From the beginning I have not spoken in secret;</p>

<p>from the time that it happened, I was there.”</p>

<p>Now the Lord Yahweh has sent me,</p>

<p>with his Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yahweh,</p>

<p>your Redeemer,</p>

<p>the Holy One of Israel says:</p>

<p>“I am Yahweh your God,</p>

<p>who teaches you to profit,</p>

<p>who leads you by the way that you should go.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Oh that you had listened to my commandments!</p>

<p>Then your peace would have been like a river,</p>

<p>and your righteousness like the waves of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> also would have been as the sand,</p>

<p>and the descendants of your body like its grains.</p>

<p>His name would not be cut off nor destroyed from before me.”</p>

<p><a id="c48_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Leave Babylon!</p>

<p>Flee from the Chaldeans!</p>

<p>With a voice of singing announce this,</p>

<p>tell it even to the end of the earth:</p>

<p>say, “Yahweh has redeemed his servant Jacob!”</p>

<p><a id="c48_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They didn’t thirst when he led them through the deserts.</p>

<p>He caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them.</p>

<p>He split the rock also, and the waters gushed out.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “There is no peace”, says Yahweh, “for the wicked.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>