<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 44</h2>

<p><a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yet listen now, Jacob my servant,</p>

<p>and Israel, whom I have chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> This is what Yahweh who made you,</p>

<p>and formed you from the womb,</p>

<p>who will help you says:</p>

<p>“Don’t be afraid, Jacob my servant;</p>

<p>and you, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I will pour water on him who is thirsty,</p>

<p>and streams on the dry ground.</p>

<p>I will pour my Spirit on your descendants,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>and my blessing on your offspring:</p>

<p><a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and they will spring up among the grass,</p>

<p>as willows by the watercourses.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> One will say, ‘I am Yahweh’s;’</p>

<p>and another will be called by the name of Jacob;</p>

<p>and another will write with his hand ‘to Yahweh,’</p>

<p>and honor the name of Israel.”</p>

<p><a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This is what Yahweh, the King of Israel,</p>

<p>and his Redeemer, Yahweh of Armies, says:</p>

<p>“I am the first, and I am the last;</p>

<p>and besides me there is no God.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who is like me?</p>

<p>Who will call,</p>

<p>and will declare it,</p>

<p>and set it in order for me,</p>

<p>since I established the ancient people?</p>

<p>Let them declare the things that are coming,</p>

<p>and that will happen.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Don’t fear,</p>

<p>neither be afraid.</p>

<p>Haven’t I declared it to you long ago,</p>

<p>and shown it?</p>

<p>You are my witnesses.</p>

<p>Is there a God besides me?</p>

<p>Indeed, there is not.</p>

<p>I don’t know any other Rock.”</p>

<p><a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Everyone who makes an engraved image is vain.</p>

<p>The things that they delight in will not profit.</p>

<p>Their own witnesses don’t see, nor know, that they may be disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who has fashioned a god,</p>

<p>or molds an image that is profitable for nothing?</p>

<p><a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all his fellows will be disappointed;</p>

<p>and the workmen are mere men.</p>

<p>Let them all be gathered together.</p>

<p>Let them stand up.</p>

<p>They will fear.</p>

<p>They will be put to shame together.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The blacksmith takes an ax,</p>

<p>works in the coals,</p>

<p>fashions it with hammers,</p>

<p>and works it with his strong arm.</p>

<p>He is hungry,</p>

<p>and his strength fails;</p>

<p>he drinks no water,</p>

<p>and is faint.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The carpenter stretches out a line.</p>

<p>He marks it out with a pencil.</p>

<p>He shapes it with planes.</p>

<p>He marks it out with compasses,</p>

<p>and shapes it like the figure of a man,</p>

<p>with the beauty of a man,</p>

<p>to reside in a house.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He cuts down cedars for himself,</p>

<p>and takes the cypress and the oak,</p>

<p>and strengthens for himself one among the trees of the forest.</p>

<p>He plants a cypress tree,</p>

<p>and the rain nourishes it.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then it will be for a man to burn;</p>

<p>and he takes some of it, and warms himself.</p>

<p>Yes, he burns it, and bakes bread.</p>

<p>Yes, he makes a god, and worships it;</p>

<p>he makes it an engraved image, and falls down to it.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He burns part of it in the fire.</p>

<p>With part of it, he eats meat.</p>

<p>He roasts a roast, and is satisfied.</p>

<p>Yes, he warms himself,</p>

<p>and says, “Aha! I am warm. I have seen the fire.”</p>

<p><a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The rest of it he makes into a god,</p>

<p>even his engraved image.</p>

<p>He bows down to it and worships,</p>

<p>and prays to it, and says, “Deliver me; for you are my god!”</p>

<p><a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They don’t know, neither do they consider:</p>

<p>for he has shut their eyes, that they can’t see;</p>

<p>and their hearts, that they can’t understand.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> No one thinks,</p>

<p>neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say,</p>

<p>“I have burned part of it in the fire.</p>

<p>Yes, I have also baked bread on its coals.</p>

<p>I have roasted meat and eaten it.</p>

<p>Shall I make the rest of it into an abomination?</p>

<p>Shall I bow down to a tree trunk?”</p>

<p><a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He feeds on ashes.</p>

<p>A deceived heart has turned him aside;</p>

<p>and he can’t deliver his soul,</p>

<p>nor say, “Isn’t there a lie in my right hand?”</p>

<p><a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Remember these things, Jacob and Israel;</p>

<p>for you are my servant.</p>

<p>I have formed you.</p>

<p>You are my servant.</p>

<p>Israel, you will not be forgotten by me.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, your transgressions,</p>

<p>and, as a cloud, your sins.</p>

<p>Return to me, for I have redeemed you.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Sing, you heavens, for Yahweh has done it!</p>

<p>Shout, you lower parts of the earth!</p>

<p>Break out into singing, you mountains, O forest, all of your trees,</p>

<p>for Yahweh has redeemed Jacob,</p>

<p>and will glorify himself in Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yahweh, your Redeemer,</p>

<p>and he who formed you from the womb says:</p>

<p>“I am Yahweh, who makes all things;</p>

<p>who alone stretches out the heavens;</p>

<p>who spreads out the earth by myself;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> who frustrates the signs of the liars,</p>

<p>and makes diviners mad;</p>

<p>who turns wise men backward,</p>

<p>and makes their knowledge foolish;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> who confirms the word of his servant,</p>

<p>and performs the counsel of his messengers;</p>

<p>who says of Jerusalem, ‘She will be inhabited;’</p>

<p>and of the cities of Judah, ‘They will be built,’</p>

<p>and ‘I will raise up its waste places;’</p>

<p><a id="c44_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> who says to the deep, ‘Be dry,’</p>

<p>and ‘I will dry up your rivers;’</p>

<p><a id="c44_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Who says of Cyrus, ‘He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure,’</p>

<p>even saying of Jerusalem, ‘She will be built;’</p>

<p>and of the temple, ‘Your foundation will be laid.’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>