<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 53</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 53</h2>

<p><a id="c53_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who has believed our message?</p>

<p>To whom has the arm of Yahweh been revealed?</p>

<p><a id="c53_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he grew up before him as a tender plant,</p>

<p>and as a root out of dry ground.</p>

<p>He has no good looks or majesty.</p>

<p>When we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He was despised,</p>

<p>and rejected by men;</p>

<p>a man of suffering,</p>

<p>and acquainted with disease.</p>

<p>He was despised as one from whom men hide their face;</p>

<p>and we didn’t respect him.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Surely he has borne our sickness,</p>

<p>and carried our suffering;</p>

<p>yet we considered him plagued,</p>

<p>struck by God, and afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But he was pierced for our transgressions.</p>

<p>He was crushed for our iniquities.</p>

<p>The punishment that brought our peace was on him;</p>

<p>and by his wounds we are healed.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All we like sheep have gone astray.</p>

<p>Everyone has turned to his own way;</p>

<p>and Yahweh has laid on him the iniquity of us all.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He was oppressed,</p>

<p>yet when he was afflicted he didn’t open his mouth.</p>

<p>As a lamb that is led to the slaughter,</p>

<p>and as a sheep that before its shearers is silent,</p>

<p>so he didn’t open his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He was taken away by oppression and judgment;</p>

<p>and as for his generation,</p>

<p>who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living</p>

<p>and stricken for the disobedience of my people?</p>

<p><a id="c53_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They made his grave with the wicked,</p>

<p>and with a rich man in his death;</p>

<p>although he had done no violence,</p>

<p>nor was any deceit in his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet it pleased Yahweh to bruise him.</p>

<p>He has caused him to suffer.</p>

<p>When you make his soul an offering for sin,</p>

<p>he will see his offspring.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>He will prolong his days,</p>

<p>and Yahweh’s pleasure will prosper in his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> After the suffering of his soul,</p>

<p>he will see the light<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and be satisfied.</p>

<p>My righteous servant will justify many by the knowledge of himself;</p>

<p>and he will bear their iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore will I give him a portion with the great,</p>

<p>and he will divide the plunder with the strong;</p>

<p>because he poured out his soul to death,</p>

<p>and was counted with the transgressors;</p>

<p>yet he bore the sin of many,</p>

<p>and made intercession for the transgressors.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>So read the Dead Sea Scrolls and Septuagint. Masoretic Text omits “the light”.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>