<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 57</h2>

<p><a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The righteous perish,</p>

<p>and no one lays it to heart.</p>

<p>Merciful men are taken away,</p>

<p>and no one considers that the righteous is taken away from the evil.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He enters into peace.</p>

<p>They rest in their beds,</p>

<p>each one who walks in his uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “But draw near here, you sons of a sorceress,</p>

<p>you offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of adulterers and prostitutes.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whom do you mock?</p>

<p>Against whom do you make a wide mouth,</p>

<p>and stick out your tongue?</p>

<p>Aren’t you children of disobedience,</p>

<p>and offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of falsehood,</p>

<p><a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> you who inflame yourselves among the oaks,</p>

<p>under every green tree;</p>

<p>who kill the children in the valleys,</p>

<p>under the clefts of the rocks?</p>

<p><a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion;</p>

<p>they, they are your lot.</p>

<p>You have even poured a drink offering to them.</p>

<p>You have offered an offering.</p>

<p>Shall I be appeased for these things?</p>

<p><a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> On a high and lofty mountain you have set your bed.</p>

<p>You also went up there to offer sacrifice.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have set up your memorial behind the doors and the posts;</p>

<p>for you have exposed yourself to someone besides me,</p>

<p>and have gone up;</p>

<p>you have enlarged your bed,</p>

<p>and made you a covenant with them.</p>

<p>You loved what you saw on their bed.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You went to the king with oil,</p>

<p>and increased your perfumes,</p>

<p>and sent your ambassadors far off,</p>

<p>and degraded yourself even to Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You were wearied with the length of your ways;</p>

<p>yet you didn’t say, ‘It is in vain.’</p>

<p>You found a reviving of your strength;</p>

<p>therefore you weren’t faint.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Whom have you dreaded and feared,</p>

<p>so that you lie,</p>

<p>and have not remembered me, nor laid it to your heart?</p>

<p>Haven’t I held my peace for a long time,</p>

<p>and you don’t fear me?</p>

<p><a id="c57_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will declare your righteousness;</p>

<p>and as for your works, they will not benefit you.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When you cry,</p>

<p>let those whom you have gathered deliver you;</p>

<p>but the wind will take them.</p>

<p>a breath will carry them all away:</p>

<p>but he who takes refuge in me will possess the land,</p>

<p>and will inherit my holy mountain.”</p>

<p><a id="c57_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He will say, “Build up, build up, prepare the way!</p>

<p>Remove the stumbling-block out of the way of my people.”</p>

<p><a id="c57_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For thus says the high and lofty One who inhabits eternity,</p>

<p>whose name is Holy:</p>

<p>“I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also who is of a contrite and humble spirit,</p>

<p>to revive the spirit of the humble,</p>

<p>and to revive the heart of the contrite.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I will not contend forever, neither will I be always angry;</p>

<p>for the spirit would faint before me,</p>

<p>and the souls whom I have made.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I was angry because of the iniquity of his covetousness, and struck him;</p>

<p>I hid myself and was angry;</p>

<p>and he went on backsliding in the way of his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I have seen his ways, and will heal him:</p>

<p>I will lead him also,</p>

<p>and restore comforts to him and to his mourners.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I create the fruit of the lips:</p>

<p>Peace, peace, to him who is far off and to him who is near,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh; “and I will heal them.”</p>

<p><a id="c57_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the wicked are like the troubled sea;</p>

<p>for it can’t rest, and its waters cast up mire and mud.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “There is no peace”, says my God,</p>

<p>“for the wicked.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>