<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let me sing for my well beloved a song of my beloved about his vineyard.</p>

<p>My beloved had a vineyard on a very fruitful hill.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He dug it up,</p>

<p>gathered out its stones,</p>

<p>planted it with the choicest vine,</p>

<p>built a tower in the middle of it,</p>

<p>and also cut out a wine press therein.</p>

<p>He looked for it to yield grapes,</p>

<p>but it yielded wild grapes.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Now, inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah,</p>

<p>please judge between me and my vineyard.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it?</p>

<p>Why, when I looked for it to yield grapes, did it yield wild grapes?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard.</p>

<p>I will take away its hedge, and it will be eaten up.</p>

<p>I will break down its wall, and it will be trampled down.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will lay it a wasteland.</p>

<p>It won’t be pruned nor hoed,</p>

<p>but it will grow briers and thorns.</p>

<p>I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain on it.”</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the vineyard of Yahweh of Armies is the house of Israel,</p>

<p>and the men of Judah his pleasant plant:</p>

<p>and he looked for justice, but, behold, oppression;</p>

<p>for righteousness, but, behold, a cry of distress.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Woe to those who join house to house,</p>

<p>who lay field to field, until there is no room,</p>

<p>and you are made to dwell alone in the middle of the land!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In my ears, Yahweh of Armies says: “Surely many houses will be desolate,</p>

<p>even great and beautiful, unoccupied.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For ten acres<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of vineyard shall yield one bath,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>and a homer<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> of seed shall yield an ephah.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Woe to those who rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong drink;</p>

<p>who stay late into the night, until wine inflames them!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The harp, lyre, tambourine, and flute, with wine, are at their feasts;</p>

<p>but they don’t respect the work of Yahweh,</p>

<p>neither have they considered the operation of his hands.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore my people go into captivity for lack of knowledge.</p>

<p>Their honorable men are famished,</p>

<p>and their multitudes are parched with thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> has enlarged its desire,</p>

<p>and opened its mouth without measure;</p>

<p>and their glory, their multitude, their pomp, and he who rejoices among them, descend into it.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So man is brought low,</p>

<p>mankind is humbled,</p>

<p>and the eyes of the arrogant ones are humbled;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> but Yahweh of Armies is exalted in justice,</p>

<p>and God the Holy One is sanctified in righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then the lambs will graze as in their pasture,</p>

<p>and strangers will eat the ruins of the rich.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of falsehood,</p>

<p>and wickedness as with cart rope;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who say, “Let him make speed, let him hasten his work, that we may see it;</p>

<p>and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near and come,</p>

<p>that we may know it!”</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Woe to those who call evil good, and good evil;</p>

<p>who put darkness for light,</p>

<p>and light for darkness;</p>

<p>who put bitter for sweet,</p>

<p>and sweet for bitter!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes,</p>

<p>and prudent in their own sight!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Woe to those who are mighty to drink wine,</p>

<p>and champions at mixing strong drink;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> who acquit the guilty for a bribe,</p>

<p>but deny justice for the innocent!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore as the tongue of fire devours the stubble,</p>

<p>and as the dry grass sinks down in the flame,</p>

<p>so their root shall be as rottenness,</p>

<p>and their blossom shall go up as dust;</p>

<p>because they have rejected the law of Yahweh of Armies,</p>

<p>and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore Yahweh’s anger burns against his people,</p>

<p>and he has stretched out his hand against them, and has struck them.</p>

<p>The mountains tremble,</p>

<p>and their dead bodies are as refuse in the middle of the streets.</p>

<p>For all this, his anger is not turned away,</p>

<p>but his hand is still stretched out.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He will lift up a banner to the nations from far,</p>

<p>and he will whistle for them from the end of the earth.</p>

<p>Behold, they will come speedily and swiftly.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> No one shall be weary nor stumble among them;</p>

<p>no one shall slumber nor sleep;</p>

<p>neither shall the belt of their waist be untied,</p>

<p>nor the strap of their sandals be broken:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> whose arrows are sharp,</p>

<p>and all their bows bent.</p>

<p>Their horses’ hoofs will be like flint,</p>

<p>and their wheels like a whirlwind.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Their roaring will be like a lioness.</p>

<p>They will roar like young lions.</p>

<p>Yes, they shall roar,</p>

<p>and seize their prey and carry it off,</p>

<p>and there will be no one to deliver.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They will roar against them in that day like the roaring of the sea.</p>

<p>If one looks to the land behold, darkness and distress.</p>

<p>The light is darkened in its clouds.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>literally, ten yokes, or the amount of land that ten yokes of oxen can plow in one day, which is about 10 acres or 4 hectares.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>1 bath is about 22 liters or 5.8 U. S. gallons</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>1 homer is about 220 liters or 6 bushels</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or 0.6 bushels or about 2 pecks—only one tenth of what was sown.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>