<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, Yahweh makes the earth empty, makes it waste, turns it upside down, and scatters its inhabitants. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It will be as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the creditor, so with the debtor; as with the taker of interest, so with the giver of interest. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The earth will be utterly emptied and utterly laid waste; for Yahweh has spoken this word. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The earth mourns and fades away. The world languishes and fades away. The lofty people of the earth languish. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The earth also is polluted under its inhabitants, because they have transgressed the laws, violated the statutes, and broken the everlasting covenant. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore the curse has devoured the earth, and those who dwell therein are found guilty. Therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The new wine mourns. The vine languishes. All the merry-hearted sigh. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The mirth of tambourines ceases. The sound of those who rejoice ends. The joy of the harp ceases. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They will not drink wine with a song. Strong drink will be bitter to those who drink it. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The confused city is broken down. Every house is shut up, that no man may come in. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is a crying in the streets because of the wine. All joy is darkened. The mirth of the land is gone. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The city is left in desolation, and the gate is struck with destruction. <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For it will be so within the earth among the peoples, as the shaking of an olive tree, as the gleanings when the vintage is done. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These shall lift up their voice. They will shout for the majesty of Yahweh. They cry aloud from the sea. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore glorify Yahweh in the east, even the name of Yahweh, the God of Israel, in the islands of the sea! <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs. Glory to the righteous! But I said, “I pine away! I pine away! woe is me!” The treacherous have dealt treacherously. Yes, the treacherous have dealt very treacherously. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fear, the pit, and the snare, are on you who inhabitant the earth. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> It will happen that he who flees from the noise of the fear will fall into the pit; and he who comes up out of the middle of the pit will be taken in the snare; for the windows on high are opened, and the foundations of the earth tremble. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The earth is utterly broken. The earth is torn apart. The earth is shaken violently. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The earth will stagger like a drunken man, and will sway back and forth like a hammock. Its disobedience will be heavy on it, and it will fall and not rise again. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It shall happen in that day that Yahweh will punish the army of the high ones on high, and the kings of the earth on the earth. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison; and after many days shall they be visited. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed; for Yahweh of Armies will reign on Mount Zion, and in Jerusalem; and before his elders will be glory.</p>

</body>
</html>