<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 56</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 56</h2>

<p><a id="c56_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“Maintain justice,</p>

<p>and do what is right;</p>

<p>for my salvation is near,</p>

<p>and my righteousness will soon be revealed.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed is the man who does this,</p>

<p>and the son of man who holds it fast;</p>

<p>who keeps the Sabbath without profaning it,</p>

<p>and keeps his hand from doing any evil.”</p>

<p><a id="c56_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let no foreigner, who has joined himself to Yahweh, speak, saying,</p>

<p>“Yahweh will surely separate me from his people.”</p>

<p>Do not let the eunuch say, “Behold, I am a dry tree.”</p>

<p><a id="c56_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Yahweh says, “To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths,</p>

<p>and choose the things that please me,</p>

<p>and hold fast to my covenant:</p>

<p><a id="c56_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will give them in my house and within my walls a memorial and a name better than of sons and of daughters.</p>

<p>I will give them an everlasting name, that will not be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Also the foreigners who join themselves to Yahweh,</p>

<p>to serve him,</p>

<p>and to love Yahweh’s name,</p>

<p>to be his servants,</p>

<p>everyone who keeps the Sabbath from profaning it,</p>

<p>and holds fast my covenant;</p>

<p><a id="c56_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will bring these to my holy mountain,</p>

<p>and make them joyful in my house of prayer.</p>

<p>Their burnt offerings and their sacrifices will be accepted on my altar;</p>

<p>for my house will be called a house of prayer for all peoples.”</p>

<p><a id="c56_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord Yahweh, who gathers the outcasts of Israel, says,</p>

<p>“I will yet gather others to him,</p>

<p>besides his own who are gathered.”</p>

<p><a id="c56_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All you animals of the field,</p>

<p>come to devour,</p>

<p>all you animals in the forest.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His watchmen are blind.</p>

<p>They are all without knowledge.</p>

<p>They are all mute dogs.</p>

<p>They can’t bark;</p>

<p>dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yes, the dogs are greedy.</p>

<p>They can never have enough.</p>

<p>They are shepherds who can’t understand.</p>

<p>They have all turned to their own way,</p>

<p>each one to his gain, from every quarter.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Come,” say they, “I will get wine,</p>

<p>and we will fill ourselves with strong drink;</p>

<p>and tomorrow will be as today,</p>

<p>great beyond measure.”</p>

</body>
</html>