<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the year that king Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting on a throne, high and lifted up; and his train filled the temple. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Above him stood the seraphim. Each one had six wings. With two he covered his face. With two he covered his feet. With two he flew. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> One called to another, and said,</p>

<p>“Holy, holy, holy, is Yahweh of Armies!</p>

<p>The whole earth is full of his glory!”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then I said, “Woe is me! For I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell among a people of unclean lips: for my eyes have seen the King, Yahweh of Armies!”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He touched my mouth with it, and said, “Behold, this has touched your lips; and your iniquity is taken away, and your sin forgiven.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I heard the Lord’s voice, saying, “Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?”</p>

<p>Then I said, “Here I am. Send me!”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He said, “Go, and tell this people,</p>

<p>‘You hear indeed,</p>

<p>but don’t understand;</p>

<p>and you see indeed,</p>

<p>but don’t perceive.’</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Make the heart of this people fat.</p>

<p>Make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes;</p>

<p>lest they see with their eyes,</p>

<p>and hear with their ears,</p>

<p>and understand with their heart,</p>

<p>and turn again, and be healed.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then I said, “Lord, how long?”</p>

<p>He answered,</p>

<p>“Until cities are waste without inhabitant,</p>

<p>and houses without man,</p>

<p>and the land becomes utterly waste,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Yahweh has removed men far away,</p>

<p>and the forsaken places are many within the land.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If there is a tenth left in it,</p>

<p>that also will in turn be consumed:</p>

<p>as a terebinth, and as an oak, whose stock remains when they are felled;</p>

<p>so the holy seed is its stock.”</p>

</body>
</html>