<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 61</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 61</h2>

<p><a id="c61_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Lord Yahweh’s Spirit is on me;</p>

<p>because Yahweh has anointed me to preach good news to the humble.</p>

<p>He has sent me to bind up the broken hearted,</p>

<p>to proclaim liberty to the captives,</p>

<p>and release to those who are bound;</p>

<p><a id="c61_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to proclaim the year of Yahweh’s favor,</p>

<p>and the day of vengeance of our God;</p>

<p>to comfort all who mourn;</p>

<p><a id="c61_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> to provide for those who mourn in Zion,</p>

<p>to give to them a garland for ashes,</p>

<p>the oil of joy for mourning,</p>

<p>the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness;</p>

<p>that they may be called trees of righteousness,</p>

<p>the planting of Yahweh,</p>

<p>that he may be glorified.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They will rebuild the old ruins.</p>

<p>They will raise up the places long devastated.</p>

<p>They will repair the ruined cities,</p>

<p>that have been devastated for many generations.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Strangers will stand and feed your flocks,</p>

<p>and foreigners will work your fields and your vineyards.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But you will be called Yahweh’s priests.</p>

<p>Men will call you the servants of our God.</p>

<p>You will eat the wealth of the nations,</p>

<p>and you will boast in their glory.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Instead of your shame you will have double.</p>

<p>Instead of dishonor, they will rejoice in their portion.</p>

<p>Therefore in their land, they will possess double.</p>

<p>Everlasting joy will be to them.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “For I, Yahweh, love justice.</p>

<p>I hate robbery and iniquity.</p>

<p>I will give them their reward in truth,</p>

<p>and I will make an everlasting covenant with them.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Their offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> will be known among the nations,</p>

<p>and their offspring among the peoples.</p>

<p>All who see them will acknowledge them,</p>

<p>that they are the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> which Yahweh has blessed.”</p>

<p><a id="c61_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will greatly rejoice in Yahweh!</p>

<p>My soul will be joyful in my God;</p>

<p>for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation.</p>

<p>He has covered me with the robe of righteousness,</p>

<p>as a bridegroom decks himself with a garland,</p>

<p>and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For as the earth produces its bud,</p>

<p>and as the garden causes the things that are sown in it to spring up;</p>

<p>so the Lord Yahweh will cause righteousness and praise to spring up before all the nations.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>