<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen, islands, to me.</p>

<p>Listen, you peoples, from afar:</p>

<p>Yahweh has called me from the womb;</p>

<p>from the inside of my mother he has mentioned my name.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He has made my mouth like a sharp sword.</p>

<p>He has hidden me in the shadow of his hand.</p>

<p>He has made me a polished shaft.</p>

<p>He has kept me close in his quiver.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He said to me, “You are my servant;</p>

<p>Israel, in whom I will be glorified.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But I said, “I have labored in vain.</p>

<p>I have spent my strength in vain for nothing;</p>

<p>yet surely the justice due to me is with Yahweh,</p>

<p>and my reward with my God.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now Yahweh says, he who formed me from the womb to be his servant,</p>

<p>to bring Jacob again to him,</p>

<p>and to gather Israel to him,</p>

<p>for I am honorable in Yahweh’s eyes,</p>

<p>and my God has become my strength.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Indeed, he says, “It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob,</p>

<p>and to restore the preserved of Israel?</p>

<p>I will also give you as a light to the nations,</p>

<p>that you may be my salvation to the end of the earth.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh, the Redeemer of Israel, and his Holy One,</p>

<p>says to him whom man despises, to him whom the nation abhors, to a servant of rulers:</p>

<p>“Kings shall see and rise up;</p>

<p>princes, and they shall worship;</p>

<p>because of Yahweh who is faithful, even the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh says, “In an acceptable time I have answered you,</p>

<p>and in a day of salvation I have helped you.</p>

<p>I will preserve you, and give you for a covenant of the people,</p>

<p>to raise up the land, to make them inherit the desolate heritage:</p>

<p><a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> saying to those who are bound, ‘Come out!’;</p>

<p>to those who are in darkness, ‘Show yourselves!’</p>

<p>“They shall feed along the paths,</p>

<p>and their pasture shall be on all treeless heights.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They shall not hunger nor thirst;</p>

<p>neither shall the heat nor sun strike them:</p>

<p>for he who has mercy on them will lead them.</p>

<p>He will guide them by springs of water.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will make all my mountains a road,</p>

<p>and my highways shall be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, these shall come from afar;</p>

<p>and behold, these from the north and from the west;</p>

<p>and these from the land of Sinim.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Sing, heavens; and be joyful, earth;</p>

<p>and break out into singing, mountains:</p>

<p>for Yahweh has comforted his people,</p>

<p>and will have compassion on his afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But Zion said, “Yahweh has forsaken me,</p>

<p>and the Lord has forgotten me.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “Can a woman forget her nursing child,</p>

<p>that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb?</p>

<p>Yes, these may forget,</p>

<p>yet I will not forget you!</p>

<p><a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands.</p>

<p>your walls are continually before me.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Your children hurry.</p>

<p>Your destroyers and those who devastated you will leave you.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lift up your eyes all around, and see:</p>

<p>all these gather themselves together, and come to you.</p>

<p>As I live,” says Yahweh, “you shall surely clothe yourself with them all as with an ornament,</p>

<p>and dress yourself with them, like a bride.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “For, as for your waste and your desolate places,</p>

<p>and your land that has been destroyed,</p>

<p>surely now that land will be too small for the inhabitants,</p>

<p>and those who swallowed you up will be far away.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The children of your bereavement will say in your ears,</p>

<p>‘This place is too small for me.</p>

<p>Give me a place to live in.’</p>

<p><a id="c49_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then you will say in your heart, ‘Who has conceived these for me, since I have been bereaved of my children,</p>

<p>and am solitary, an exile, and wandering back and forth?</p>

<p>Who has brought these up?</p>

<p>Behold, I was left alone. Where were these?’”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations,</p>

<p>and lift up my banner to the peoples;</p>

<p>and they shall bring your sons in their bosom,</p>

<p>and your daughters shall be carried on their shoulders.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Kings shall be your foster fathers,</p>

<p>and their queens your nursing mothers.</p>

<p>They will bow down to you with their faces to the earth,</p>

<p>and lick the dust of your feet;</p>

<p>Then you will know that I am Yahweh;</p>

<p>and those who wait for me shall not be disappointed.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shall the plunder be taken from the mighty,</p>

<p>or the lawful captives be delivered?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But Yahweh says, “Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away,</p>

<p>and the plunder retrieved from the fierce;</p>

<p>for I will contend with him who contends with you,</p>

<p>and I will save your children.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I will feed those who oppress you with their own flesh;</p>

<p>and they will be drunk on their own blood, as with sweet wine.</p>

<p>Then all flesh shall know that I, Yahweh, am your Savior,</p>

<p>and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.”</p>

</body>
</html>