<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the wilderness of the sea. As whirlwinds in the South sweep through, it comes from the wilderness, from an awesome land. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A grievous vision is declared to me. The treacherous man deals treacherously, and the destroyer destroys. Go up, Elam; attack! I have stopped all of Media’s sighing. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore my thighs are filled with anguish. Pains have taken hold on me, like the pains of a woman in labor. I am in so much pain that I can’t hear. I so am dismayed that I can’t see. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart flutters. Horror has frightened me. The twilight that I desired has been turned into trembling for me. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They prepare the table. They set the watch. They eat. They drink. Rise up, you princes, oil the shield! <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the Lord said to me, “Go, set a watchman. Let him declare what he sees. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When he sees a troop, horsemen in pairs, a troop of donkeys, a troop of camels, he shall listen diligently with great attentiveness.” <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He cried like a lion: “Lord, I stand continually on the watchtower in the daytime, and every night I stay at my post. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, here comes a troop of men, horsemen in pairs.” He answered, “Fallen, fallen is Babylon; and all the engraved images of her gods are broken to the ground. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You are my threshing, and the grain of my floor!” That which I have heard from Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, I have declared to you.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The burden of Dumah. One calls to me out of Seir, “Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?” <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The watchman said, “The morning comes, and also the night. If you will inquire, inquire. Come back again.”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The burden on Arabia. In the forest in Arabia you will lodge, you caravans of Dedanites. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They brought water to him who was thirsty. The inhabitants of the land of Tema met the fugitives with their bread. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For they fled away from the swords, from the drawn sword, from the bent bow, and from the heat of battle. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the Lord said to me, “Within a year, as a worker bound by contract would count it, all the glory of Kedar will fail, <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the residue of the number of the archers, the mighty men of the children of Kedar, will be few; for Yahweh, the God of Israel, has spoken it.”</p>

</body>
</html>