<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 64</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 64</h2>

<p><a id="c64_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh that you would tear the heavens,</p>

<p>that you would come down,</p>

<p>that the mountains might quake at your presence.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As when fire kindles the brushwood,</p>

<p>and the fire causes the water to boil;</p>

<p>Make your name known to your adversaries,</p>

<p>that the nations may tremble at your presence!</p>

<p><a id="c64_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When you did awesome things which we didn’t look for,</p>

<p>you came down, and the mountains quaked at your presence.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For from of old men have not heard,</p>

<p>nor perceived by the ear,</p>

<p>nor has the eye seen a God besides you,</p>

<p>who works for him who waits for him.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You meet him who rejoices and does righteousness,</p>

<p>those who remember you in your ways.</p>

<p>Behold, you were angry, and we sinned.</p>

<p>We have been in sin for a long time.</p>

<p>Shall we be saved?</p>

<p><a id="c64_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For we have all become like one who is unclean,</p>

<p>and all our righteousness is like a polluted garment.</p>

<p>We all fade like a leaf;</p>

<p>and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There is no one who calls on your name,</p>

<p>who stirs himself up to take hold of you;</p>

<p>for you have hidden your face from us,</p>

<p>and have consumed us by means of our iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But now, Yahweh, you are our Father.</p>

<p>We are the clay, and you our potter.</p>

<p>We all are the work of your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Don’t be furious, Yahweh,</p>

<p>and don’t remember iniquity forever.</p>

<p>Look and see, we beg you,</p>

<p>we are all your people.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Your holy cities have become a wilderness.</p>

<p>Zion has become a wilderness,</p>

<p>Jerusalem a desolation.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praised you,</p>

<p>is burned with fire;</p>

<p>and all our pleasant places are laid waste.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Will you hold yourself back for these things, Yahweh?</p>

<p>Will you keep silent, and punish us very severely?</p>

</body>
</html>