<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The wilderness and the dry land will be glad.</p>

<p>The desert will rejoice and blossom like a rose.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It will blossom abundantly,</p>

<p>and rejoice even with joy and singing.</p>

<p>Lebanon’s glory will be given to it,</p>

<p>the excellence of Carmel and Sharon.</p>

<p>They will see Yahweh’s glory,</p>

<p>the excellence of our God.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Strengthen the weak hands,</p>

<p>and make firm the feeble knees.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Tell those who have a fearful heart, “Be strong.</p>

<p>Don’t be afraid.</p>

<p>Behold, your God will come with vengeance, God’s retribution.</p>

<p>He will come and save you.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the eyes of the blind will be opened,</p>

<p>and the ears of the deaf will be unstopped.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then the lame man will leap like a deer,</p>

<p>and the tongue of the mute will sing;</p>

<p>for waters will break out in the wilderness,</p>

<p>and streams in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The burning sand will become a pool,</p>

<p>and the thirsty ground springs of water.</p>

<p>Grass with reeds and rushes will be in the habitation of jackals, where they lay.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A highway will be there, a road,</p>

<p>and it will be called The Holy Way.</p>

<p>The unclean shall not pass over it,</p>

<p>but it will be for those who walk in the Way.</p>

<p>Wicked fools will not go there.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> No lion will be there,</p>

<p>nor will any ravenous animal go up on it.</p>

<p>They will not be found there;</p>

<p>but the redeemed will walk there.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The Yahweh’s ransomed ones will return,</p>

<p>and come with singing to Zion;</p>

<p>and everlasting joy will be on their heads.</p>

<p>They will obtain gladness and joy,</p>

<p>and sorrow and sighing will flee away.”</p>

</body>
</html>