<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 45</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 45</h2>

<p><a id="c45_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh says to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have held, to subdue nations before him, and strip kings of their armor; to open the doors before him, and the gates shall not be shut:</p>

<p><a id="c45_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “I will go before you,</p>

<p>and make the rough places smooth.</p>

<p>I will break the doors of brass in pieces,</p>

<p>and cut apart the bars of iron.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will give you the treasures of darkness,</p>

<p>and hidden riches of secret places,</p>

<p>that you may know that it is I, Yahweh, who call you by your name,</p>

<p>even the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Jacob my servant’s sake,</p>

<p>and Israel my chosen,</p>

<p>I have called you by your name.</p>

<p>I have given you a title,</p>

<p>though you have not known me.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I am Yahweh, and there is no one else.</p>

<p>Besides me, there is no God.</p>

<p>I will strengthen<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> you,</p>

<p>though you have not known me;</p>

<p><a id="c45_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that they may know from the rising of the sun,</p>

<p>and from the west,</p>

<p>that there is no one besides me.</p>

<p>I am Yahweh, and there is no one else.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I form the light,</p>

<p>and create darkness.</p>

<p>I make peace,</p>

<p>and create calamity.</p>

<p>I am Yahweh,</p>

<p>who does all these things.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Rain, you heavens, from above,</p>

<p>and let the skies pour down righteousness.</p>

<p>Let the earth open, that it may produce salvation,</p>

<p>and let it cause righteousness to spring up with it.</p>

<p>I, Yahweh, have created it.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Woe to him who strives with his Maker—</p>

<p>a clay pot among the clay pots of the earth!</p>

<p>Shall the clay ask him who fashions it, ‘What are you making?’</p>

<p>or your work, ‘He has no hands?’</p>

<p><a id="c45_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Woe to him who says to a father, ‘What have you become the father of?’</p>

<p>or to a mother, ‘To what have you given birth?’”</p>

<p><a id="c45_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh, the Holy One of Israel,</p>

<p>and his Maker says:</p>

<p>“You ask me about the things that are to come, concerning my sons,</p>

<p>and you command me concerning the work of my hands!</p>

<p><a id="c45_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have made the earth, and created man on it.</p>

<p>I, even my hands, have stretched out the heavens;</p>

<p>and I have commanded all their army.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I have raised him up in righteousness,</p>

<p>and I will make straight all his ways.</p>

<p>He shall build my city,</p>

<p>and he shall let my exiles go free,</p>

<p>not for price nor reward,” says Yahweh of Armies.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh says: “The labor of Egypt,</p>

<p>and the merchandise of Ethiopia,</p>

<p>and the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over to you,</p>

<p>and they shall be yours.</p>

<p>They will go after you.</p>

<p>They shall come over in chains;</p>

<p>and they will bow down to you.</p>

<p>They will make supplication to you:</p>

<p>‘Surely God is in you; and there is no one else.</p>

<p>There is no other god.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Most certainly you are a God who has hidden yourself,</p>

<p>God of Israel, the Savior.’”</p>

<p><a id="c45_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They will be disappointed,</p>

<p>yes, confounded, all of them.</p>

<p>Those who are makers of idols will go into confusion together.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Israel will be saved by Yahweh with an everlasting salvation.</p>

<p>You will not be disappointed nor confounded to ages everlasting.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For Yahweh who created the heavens,</p>

<p>the God who formed the earth and made it,</p>

<p>who established it and didn’t create it a waste,</p>

<p>who formed it to be inhabited says:</p>

<p>“I am Yahweh;</p>

<p>and there is no other.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I have not spoken in secret,</p>

<p>in a place of the land of darkness.</p>

<p>I didn’t say to the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of Jacob, ‘Seek me in vain.’</p>

<p>I, Yahweh, speak righteousness.</p>

<p>I declare things that are right.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “Assemble yourselves and come.</p>

<p>Draw near together, you who have escaped from the nations.</p>

<p>Those have no knowledge who carry the wood of their engraved image,</p>

<p>and pray to a god that can’t save.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Declare and present it.</p>

<p>Yes, let them take counsel together.</p>

<p>Who has shown this from ancient time?</p>

<p>Who has declared it of old?</p>

<p>Haven’t I, Yahweh?</p>

<p>There is no other God besides me, a just God and a Savior;</p>

<p>There is no one besides me.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “Look to me, and be saved, all the ends of the earth;</p>

<p>for I am God, and there is no other.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I have sworn by myself.</p>

<p>The word has gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and will not be revoked,</p>

<p>that to me every knee shall bow,</p>

<p>every tongue shall take an oath.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They will say of me,</p>

<p>‘There is righteousness and strength only in Yahweh.’”</p>

<p>Even to him shall men come;</p>

<p>and all those who raged against him shall be disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> of Israel will be justified in Yahweh,</p>

<p>and will rejoice!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, equip</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>