<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 59</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 59</h2>

<p><a id="c59_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, Yahweh’s hand is not shortened, that it can’t save;</p>

<p>nor his ear dull, that it can’t hear.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But your iniquities have separated you and your God,</p>

<p>and your sins have hidden his face from you,</p>

<p>so that he will not hear.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For your hands are defiled with blood,</p>

<p>and your fingers with iniquity.</p>

<p>Your lips have spoken lies.</p>

<p>Your tongue mutters wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> No one sues in righteousness,</p>

<p>and no one pleads in truth.</p>

<p>They trust in vanity,</p>

<p>and speak lies.</p>

<p>They conceive mischief,</p>

<p>and give birth to iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They hatch adders’ eggs,</p>

<p>and weave the spider’s web.</p>

<p>He who eats of their eggs dies;</p>

<p>and that which is crushed breaks out into a viper.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Their webs won’t become garments.</p>

<p>They won’t cover themselves with their works.</p>

<p>Their works are works of iniquity,</p>

<p>and acts of violence are in their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their feet run to evil,</p>

<p>and they hurry to shed innocent blood.</p>

<p>Their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity.</p>

<p>desolation and destruction are in their paths.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They don’t know the way of peace;</p>

<p>and there is no justice in their ways.</p>

<p>They have made crooked paths for themselves;</p>

<p>whoever goes in them doesn’t know peace.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore is justice far from us,</p>

<p>and righteousness doesn’t overtake us.</p>

<p>We look for light, but see darkness;</p>

<p>for brightness, but we walk in obscurity.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> We grope for the wall like the blind.</p>

<p>Yes, we grope as those who have no eyes.</p>

<p>We stumble at noon as if it were twilight.</p>

<p>Among those who are strong, we are like dead men.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> We all roar like bears,</p>

<p>and moan bitterly like doves.</p>

<p>We look for justice, but there is none;</p>

<p>for salvation, but it is far off from us.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For our transgressions are multiplied before you,</p>

<p>and our sins testify against us;</p>

<p>for our transgressions are with us,</p>

<p>and as for our iniquities, we know them:</p>

<p><a id="c59_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> transgressing and denying Yahweh,</p>

<p>and turning away from following our God,</p>

<p>speaking oppression and revolt,</p>

<p>conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Justice is turned away backward,</p>

<p>and righteousness stands far away;</p>

<p>for truth has fallen in the street,</p>

<p>and uprightness can’t enter.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yes, truth is lacking;</p>

<p>and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey.</p>

<p>Yahweh saw it,</p>

<p>and it displeased him that there was no justice.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He saw that there was no man,</p>

<p>and wondered that there was no intercessor.</p>

<p>Therefore his own arm brought salvation to him;</p>

<p>and his righteousness sustained him.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He put on righteousness as a breastplate,</p>

<p>and a helmet of salvation on his head.</p>

<p>He put on garments of vengeance for clothing,</p>

<p>and was clad with zeal as a mantle.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> According to their deeds,</p>

<p>he will repay as appropriate,</p>

<p>wrath to his adversaries,</p>

<p>recompense to his enemies;</p>

<p>he will repay the islands their due.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So shall they fear Yahweh’s name from the west,</p>

<p>and his glory from the rising of the sun;</p>

<p>for he will come as a rushing stream,</p>

<p>which Yahweh’s breath drives.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “A Redeemer will come to Zion,</p>

<p>and to those who turn from disobedience in Jacob,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “As for me, this is my covenant with them,” says Yahweh. “My Spirit who is on you, and my words which I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, nor out of the mouth of your offspring,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> nor out of the mouth of your offspring’s offspring,” says Yahweh, “from henceforth and forever.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>