<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 55</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 55</h2>

<p><a id="c55_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Hey! Come, everyone who thirsts, to the waters!</p>

<p>Come, he who has no money, buy, and eat!</p>

<p>Yes, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Why do you spend money for that which is not bread,</p>

<p>and your labor for that which doesn’t satisfy?</p>

<p>Listen diligently to me, and eat that which is good,</p>

<p>and let your soul delight itself in richness.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Turn your ear, and come to me.</p>

<p>Hear, and your soul will live:</p>

<p>and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, I have given him for a witness to the peoples,</p>

<p>a leader and commander to the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, you shall call a nation that you don’t know;</p>

<p>and a nation that didn’t know you shall run to you,</p>

<p>because of Yahweh your God,</p>

<p>and for the Holy One of Israel;</p>

<p>for he has glorified you.”</p>

<p><a id="c55_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seek Yahweh while he may be found.</p>

<p>Call on him while he is near.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let the wicked forsake his way,</p>

<p>and the unrighteous man his thoughts.</p>

<p>Let him return to Yahweh, and he will have mercy on him;</p>

<p>and to our God, for he will freely pardon.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “For my thoughts are not your thoughts,</p>

<p>and your ways are not my ways,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “For as the heavens are higher than the earth,</p>

<p>so are my ways higher than your ways,</p>

<p>and my thoughts than your thoughts.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For as the rain comes down and the snow from the sky,</p>

<p>and doesn’t return there, but waters the earth,</p>

<p>and makes it grow and bud,</p>

<p>and gives seed to the sower and bread to the eater;</p>

<p><a id="c55_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> so is my word that goes out of my mouth:</p>

<p>it will not return to me void,</p>

<p>but it will accomplish that which I please,</p>

<p>and it will prosper in the thing I sent it to do.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For you shall go out with joy,</p>

<p>and be led out with peace.</p>

<p>The mountains and the hills will break out before you into singing;</p>

<p>and all the trees of the fields will clap their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Instead of the thorn the cypress tree will come up;</p>

<p>and instead of the brier the myrtle tree will come up:</p>

<p>and it will make a name for Yahweh,</p>

<p>for an everlasting sign that will not be cut off.”</p>

</body>
</html>