<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 50</h2>

<p><a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh says, “Where is the bill of your mother’s divorce, with which I have put her away?</p>

<p>or to which of my creditors have I sold you?</p>

<p>Behold, you were sold for your iniquities,</p>

<p>and your mother was put away for your transgressions.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Why, when I came, was there no one?</p>

<p>when I called, why was there no one to answer?</p>

<p>Is my hand shortened at all, that it can’t redeem?</p>

<p>or have I no power to deliver?</p>

<p>Behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea.</p>

<p>I make the rivers a wilderness:</p>

<p>their fish stink, because there is no water, and die for thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I clothe the heavens with blackness,</p>

<p>and I make sackcloth their covering.”</p>

<p><a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Lord Yahweh has given me the tongue of those who are taught,</p>

<p>that I may know how to sustain with words him who is weary.</p>

<p>He wakens morning by morning,</p>

<p>he wakens my ear to hear as those who are taught.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The Lord Yahweh has opened my ear,</p>

<p>and I was not rebellious.</p>

<p>I have not turned back.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I gave my back to those who beat me,</p>

<p>and my cheeks to those who plucked off the hair.</p>

<p>I didn’t hide my face from shame and spitting.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the Lord Yahweh will help me.</p>

<p>Therefore I have not been confounded.</p>

<p>Therefore I have set my face like a flint,</p>

<p>and I know that I shall not be disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He who justifies me is near.</p>

<p>Who will bring charges against me?</p>

<p>Let us stand up together.</p>

<p>Who is my adversary?</p>

<p>Let him come near to me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the Lord Yahweh will help me!</p>

<p>Who is he who will condemn me?</p>

<p>Behold, they will all grow old like a garment.</p>

<p>The moths will eat them up.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who among you fears Yahweh,</p>

<p>and obeys the voice of his servant?</p>

<p>He who walks in darkness,</p>

<p>and has no light,</p>

<p>let him trust in Yahweh’s name,</p>

<p>and rely on his God.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all you who kindle a fire,</p>

<p>who adorn yourselves with torches around yourselves;</p>

<p>walk in the flame of your fire,</p>

<p>and among the torches that you have kindled.</p>

<p>You will have this from my hand:</p>

<p>You will lie down in sorrow.</p>

</body>
</html>