<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day, this song will be sung in the land of Judah:</p>

<p>“We have a strong city.</p>

<p>God appoints salvation for walls and bulwarks.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Open the gates, that the righteous nation may enter:</p>

<p>the one which keeps faith.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You will keep whoever’s mind is steadfast in perfect peace,</p>

<p>because he trusts in you.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Trust in Yahweh forever;</p>

<p>for in Yah, Yahweh, is an everlasting Rock.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he has brought down those who dwell on high, the lofty city.</p>

<p>He lays it low.</p>

<p>He lays it low even to the ground.</p>

<p>He brings it even to the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The foot shall tread it down;</p>

<p>Even the feet of the poor,</p>

<p>and the steps of the needy.”</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The way of the just is uprightness.</p>

<p>You who are upright make the path of the righteous level.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yes, in the way of your judgments, Yahweh, have we waited for you. Your name and your renown are the desire of our soul. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With my soul I have desired you in the night. Yes, with my spirit within me will I seek you earnestly; for when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let favor be shown to the wicked, yet he will not learn righteousness. In the land of uprightness he will deal wrongfully, and will not see Yahweh’s majesty. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh, your hand is lifted up, yet they don’t see; but they will see your zeal for the people, and be disappointed. Yes, fire will consume your adversaries. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh, you will ordain peace for us, for you have also done all our work for us. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yahweh our God, other lords besides you have had dominion over us, but by you only will we make mention of your name. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The dead shall not live. The departed spirits shall not rise. Therefore you have visited and destroyed them, and caused all memory of them to perish. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You have increased the nation, O Yahweh. You have increased the nation! You are glorified! You have enlarged all the borders of the land. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh, in trouble they have visited you. They poured out a prayer when your chastening was on them. <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Like as a woman with child, who draws near the time of her delivery, is in pain and cries out in her pangs; so we have been before you, Yahweh. <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> We have been with child. We have been in pain. We gave birth, it seems, only to wind. We have not worked any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Your dead shall live. My dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing, you who dwell in the dust; for your dew is like the dew of herbs, and the earth will cast out the departed spirits.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Come, my people, enter into your rooms, and shut your doors behind you. Hide yourself for a little moment, until the indignation is past. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For, behold, Yahweh comes out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity. The earth also will disclose her blood, and will no longer cover her slain.</p>

</body>
</html>