<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 51</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 51</h2>

<p><a id="c51_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Listen to me, you who follow after righteousness,</p>

<p>you who seek Yahweh:</p>

<p>look to the rock you were cut from,</p>

<p>and to the quarry you were dug from.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Look to Abraham your father,</p>

<p>and to Sarah who bore you;</p>

<p>for when he was but one I called him,</p>

<p>and I blessed him,</p>

<p>and made him many.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Yahweh has comforted Zion.</p>

<p>He has comforted all her waste places,</p>

<p>and has made her wilderness like Eden,</p>

<p>and her desert like the garden of Yahweh.</p>

<p>Joy and gladness will be found therein,</p>

<p>thanksgiving, and the voice of melody.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Listen to me, my people;</p>

<p>and hear me, my nation:</p>

<p>for a law will go out from me,</p>

<p>and I will establish my justice for a light to the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My righteousness is near.</p>

<p>My salvation has gone out,</p>

<p>and my arms will judge the peoples.</p>

<p>The islands will wait for me,</p>

<p>and they will trust my arm.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lift up your eyes to the heavens,</p>

<p>and look on the earth beneath;</p>

<p>for the heavens will vanish away like smoke,</p>

<p>and the earth will wear out like a garment;</p>

<p>and its inhabitants will die in the same way:</p>

<p>but my salvation will be forever,</p>

<p>and my righteousness will not be abolished.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Listen to me, you who know righteousness,</p>

<p>the people in whose heart is my law:</p>

<p>Don’t fear the reproach of men,</p>

<p>and don’t be dismayed at their insults.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the moth will eat them up like a garment,</p>

<p>and the worm will eat them like wool;</p>

<p>but my righteousness will be forever,</p>

<p>and my salvation to all generations.”</p>

<p><a id="c51_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Awake, awake, put on strength, arm of Yahweh!</p>

<p>Awake, as in the days of old,</p>

<p>the generations of ancient times.</p>

<p>Isn’t it you who cut Rahab in pieces,</p>

<p>who pierced the monster?</p>

<p><a id="c51_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Isn’t it you who dried up the sea,</p>

<p>the waters of the great deep;</p>

<p>who made the depths of the sea a way for the redeemed to pass over?</p>

<p><a id="c51_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Those ransomed by Yahweh will return,</p>

<p>and come with singing to Zion;</p>

<p>and everlasting joy shall be on their heads.</p>

<p>They will obtain gladness and joy.</p>

<p>Sorrow and sighing shall flee away.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “I, even I, am he who comforts you.</p>

<p>Who are you, that you are afraid of man who shall die,</p>

<p>and of the son of man who will be made as grass?</p>

<p><a id="c51_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Have you forgotten Yahweh your Maker,</p>

<p>who stretched out the heavens,</p>

<p>and laid the foundations of the earth?</p>

<p>Do you live in fear continually all day because of the fury of the oppressor,</p>

<p>when he prepares to destroy?</p>

<p>Where is the fury of the oppressor?</p>

<p><a id="c51_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The captive exile will speedily be freed;</p>

<p>and he will not die and go down into the pit,</p>

<p>and his bread will not fail.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For I am Yahweh your God, who stirs up the sea,</p>

<p>so that its waves roar:</p>

<p>Yahweh of Armies is his name.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have put my words in your mouth,</p>

<p>and have covered you in the shadow of my hand,</p>

<p>that I may plant the heavens,</p>

<p>and lay the foundations of the earth,</p>

<p>and tell Zion, ‘You are my people.’”</p>

<p><a id="c51_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Awake, awake!</p>

<p>Stand up, Jerusalem,</p>

<p>you who have drunk from Yahweh’s hand the cup of his wrath.</p>

<p>You have drunken the bowl of the cup of staggering,</p>

<p>and drained it.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There is no one to guide her among all the sons to whom she has given birth;</p>

<p>and there is no one who takes her by the hand among all the sons who she has brought up.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These two things have happened to you—</p>

<p>who will grieve with you?—</p>

<p>desolation and destruction,</p>

<p>and famine and the sword.</p>

<p>How can I comfort you?</p>

<p><a id="c51_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Your sons have fainted.</p>

<p>They lie at the head of all the streets,</p>

<p>like an antelope in a net.</p>

<p>They are full of the Yahweh’s wrath,</p>

<p>the rebuke of your God.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore now hear this, you afflicted,</p>

<p>and drunken, but not with wine:</p>

<p><a id="c51_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thus says your Lord Yahweh,</p>

<p>your God who pleads the cause of his people,</p>

<p>“Behold, I have taken out of your hand the cup of staggering,</p>

<p>even the bowl of the cup of my wrath.</p>

<p>You will not drink it any more:</p>

<p><a id="c51_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and I will put it into the hand of those who afflict you,</p>

<p>who have said to your soul, ‘Bow down, that we may walk over you;’</p>

<p>and you have laid your back as the ground,</p>

<p>like a street to those who walk over.”</p>

</body>
</html>