<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Comfort, comfort my people,” says your God. <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Speak comfortably to Jerusalem; and call out to her that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received of Yahweh’s hand double for all her sins.”</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The voice of one who calls out,</p>

<p>“Prepare the way of Yahweh in the wilderness!</p>

<p>Make a level highway in the desert for our God.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Every valley shall be exalted,</p>

<p>and every mountain and hill shall be made low.</p>

<p>The uneven shall be made level,</p>

<p>and the rough places a plain.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yahweh’s glory shall be revealed,</p>

<p>and all flesh shall see it together;</p>

<p>for the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it.” <a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The voice of one saying, “Cry!”</p>

<p>One said, “What shall I cry?”</p>

<p>“All flesh is like grass,</p>

<p>and all its glory is like the flower of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The grass withers,</p>

<p>the flower fades,</p>

<p>because Yahweh’s breath blows on it.</p>

<p>Surely the people are like grass.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The grass withers,</p>

<p>the flower fades;</p>

<p>but the word of our God stands forever.”</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You who tell good news to Zion, go up on a high mountain.</p>

<p>You who tell good news to Jerusalem, lift up your voice with strength.</p>

<p>Lift it up. Don’t be afraid.</p>

<p>Say to the cities of Judah, “Behold, your God!”</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, the Lord Yahweh will come as a mighty one,</p>

<p>and his arm will rule for him.</p>

<p>Behold, his reward is with him,</p>

<p>and his recompense before him.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He will feed his flock like a shepherd.</p>

<p>He will gather the lambs in his arm,</p>

<p>and carry them in his bosom.</p>

<p>He will gently lead those who have their young.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand,</p>

<p>and marked off the sky with his span,</p>

<p>and calculated the dust of the earth in a measuring basket,</p>

<p>and weighed the mountains in scales,</p>

<p>and the hills in a balance?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who has directed Yahweh’s Spirit,</p>

<p>or has taught him as his counselor?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who did he take counsel with,</p>

<p>and who instructed him,</p>

<p>and taught him in the path of justice,</p>

<p>and taught him knowledge,</p>

<p>and showed him the way of understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, the nations are like a drop in a bucket,</p>

<p>and are regarded as a speck of dust on a balance.</p>

<p>Behold, he lifts up the islands like a very little thing.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lebanon is not sufficient to burn,</p>

<p>nor its animals sufficient for a burnt offering.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the nations are like nothing before him.</p>

<p>They are regarded by him as less than nothing, and vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To whom then will you liken God?</p>

<p>Or what likeness will you compare to him?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A workman has cast an image,</p>

<p>and the goldsmith overlays it with gold,</p>

<p>and casts silver chains for it.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He who is too impoverished for such an offering chooses a tree that will not rot.</p>

<p>He seeks a skillful workman to set up an engraved image for him that will not be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Haven’t you known?</p>

<p>Haven’t you heard, yet?</p>

<p>Haven’t you been told from the beginning?</p>

<p>Haven’t you understood from the foundations of the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It is he who sits above the circle of the earth,</p>

<p>and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers;</p>

<p>who stretches out the heavens like a curtain,</p>

<p>and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> who brings princes to nothing;</p>

<p>who makes the judges of the earth like meaningless.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They are planted scarcely.</p>

<p>They are sown scarcely.</p>

<p>Their stock has scarcely taken root in the ground.</p>

<p>He merely blows on them, and they wither,</p>

<p>and the whirlwind takes them away as stubble.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “To whom then will you liken me?</p>

<p>Who is my equal?” says the Holy One.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Lift up your eyes on high,</p>

<p>and see who has created these,</p>

<p>who brings out their army by number.</p>

<p>He calls them all by name.</p>

<p>by the greatness of his might,</p>

<p>and because he is strong in power,</p>

<p>Not one is lacking.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Why do you say, Jacob,</p>

<p>and speak, Israel,</p>

<p>“My way is hidden from Yahweh,</p>

<p>and the justice due me is disregarded by my God?”</p>

<p><a id="c40_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Haven’t you known?</p>

<p>Haven’t you heard?</p>

<p>The everlasting God, Yahweh,</p>

<p>The Creator of the ends of the earth, doesn’t faint.</p>

<p>He isn’t weary.</p>

<p>His understanding is unsearchable.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He gives power to the weak.</p>

<p>He increases the strength of him who has no might.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Even the youths faint and get weary,</p>

<p>and the young men utterly fall;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But those who wait for Yahweh will renew their strength.</p>

<p>They will mount up with wings like eagles.</p>

<p>They will run, and not be weary.</p>

<p>They will walk, and not faint.</p>

</body>
</html>