<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Keep silent before me, islands,</p>

<p>and let the peoples renew their strength.</p>

<p>Let them come near,</p>

<p>then let them speak.</p>

<p>Let’s meet together for judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who has raised up one from the east?</p>

<p>Who called him to his foot in righteousness?</p>

<p>He hands over nations to him,</p>

<p>and makes him rule over kings.</p>

<p>He gives them like the dust to his sword,</p>

<p>like the driven stubble to his bow.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He pursues them,</p>

<p>and passes by safely,</p>

<p>Even by a way that he had not gone with his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who has worked and done it,</p>

<p>calling the generations from the beginning?</p>

<p>I, Yahweh, the first, and with the last, I am he.”</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The islands have seen, and fear.</p>

<p>The ends of the earth tremble.</p>

<p>They approach, and come.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Everyone helps his neighbor.</p>

<p>They say to their brothers, “Be strong!”</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So the carpenter encourages the goldsmith.</p>

<p>He who smoothes with the hammer encourages him who strikes the anvil,</p>

<p>saying of the soldering, “It is good”;</p>

<p>and he fastens it with nails, that it might not totter.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “But you, Israel, my servant,</p>

<p>Jacob whom I have chosen,</p>

<p>the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Abraham my friend,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You whom I have taken hold of from the ends of the earth,</p>

<p>and called from its corners,</p>

<p>and said to you, ‘You are my servant, I have chosen you and not cast you away;’</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Don’t you be afraid, for I am with you.</p>

<p>Don’t be dismayed, for I am your God.</p>

<p>I will strengthen you.</p>

<p>Yes, I will help you.</p>

<p>Yes, I will uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all those who are incensed against you will be disappointed and confounded.</p>

<p>Those who strive with you will be like nothing, and shall perish.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You will seek them, and won’t find them,</p>

<p>even those who contend with you.</p>

<p>Those who war against you will be as nothing,</p>

<p>as a non-existent thing.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I, Yahweh your God, will hold your right hand,</p>

<p>saying to you, ‘Don’t be afraid.</p>

<p>I will help you.’</p>

<p><a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Don’t be afraid, you worm Jacob,</p>

<p>and you men of Israel.</p>

<p>I will help you,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“and your Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, I have made you into a new sharp threshing instrument with teeth.</p>

<p>You will thresh the mountains,</p>

<p>and beat them small,</p>

<p>and will make the hills like chaff.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You will winnow them,</p>

<p>and the wind will carry them away,</p>

<p>and the whirlwind will scatter them.</p>

<p>You will rejoice in Yahweh.</p>

<p>You will glory in the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The poor and needy seek water, and there is none.</p>

<p>Their tongue fails for thirst.</p>

<p>I, Yahweh, will answer them.</p>

<p>I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will open rivers on the bare heights,</p>

<p>and springs in the middle of the valleys.</p>

<p>I will make the wilderness a pool of water,</p>

<p>and the dry land springs of water.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I will put cedar, acacia, myrtle, and oil trees in the wilderness.</p>

<p>I will set cypress trees, pine, and box trees together in the desert;</p>

<p><a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> that they may see, know, consider, and understand together,</p>

<p>that Yahweh’s hand has done this,</p>

<p>and the Holy One of Israel has created it.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Produce your cause,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p>“Bring out your strong reasons,” says the King of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “Let them announce, and declare to us what shall happen.</p>

<p>Declare the former things, what they are,</p>

<p>that we may consider them, and know the latter end of them;</p>

<p>or show us things to come.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Declare the things that are to come hereafter,</p>

<p>that we may know that you are gods.</p>

<p>Yes, do good, or do evil,</p>

<p>that we may be dismayed,</p>

<p>and see it together.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Behold, you are of nothing,</p>

<p>and your work is of nothing.</p>

<p>He who chooses you is an abomination.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “I have raised up one from the north, and he has come;</p>

<p>from the rising of the sun, one who calls on my name;</p>

<p>and he shall come on rulers as on mortar,</p>

<p>and as the potter treads clay.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Who has declared it from the beginning, that we may know?</p>

<p>And before, that we may say, ‘He is right?’</p>

<p>Surely, there is no one who declares.</p>

<p>Surely, there is no one who shows.</p>

<p>Surely, there is no one who hears your words.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I am the first to say to Zion, ‘Behold, look at them;’</p>

<p>and I will give one who brings good news to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> When I look, there is no man;</p>

<p>even among them there is no counselor who, when I ask of them, can answer a word.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Behold, all of them, their deeds are vanity and nothing.</p>

<p>Their molten images are wind and confusion.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>