<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For, behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the Lord, Yahweh of Armies, takes away from Jerusalem and from Judah supply and support,</p>

<p>the whole supply of bread,</p>

<p>and the whole supply of water;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> the mighty man,</p>

<p>the man of war,</p>

<p>the judge,</p>

<p>the prophet,</p>

<p>the diviner,</p>

<p>the elder,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the captain of fifty,</p>

<p>the honorable man,</p>

<p>the counselor,</p>

<p>the skilled craftsman,</p>

<p>and the clever enchanter.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will give boys to be their princes,</p>

<p>and children shall rule over them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The people will be oppressed,</p>

<p>everyone by another,</p>

<p>and everyone by his neighbor.</p>

<p>The child will behave himself proudly against the old man,</p>

<p>and the base against the honorable.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Indeed a man shall take hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying,</p>

<p>“You have clothing, you be our ruler,</p>

<p>and let this ruin be under your hand.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In that day he will cry out, saying, “I will not be a healer;</p>

<p>for in my house is neither bread nor clothing.</p>

<p>You shall not make me ruler of the people.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen;</p>

<p>because their tongue and their doings are against Yahweh,</p>

<p>to provoke the eyes of his glory.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The look of their faces testify against them.</p>

<p>They parade their sin like Sodom.</p>

<p>They don’t hide it.</p>

<p>Woe to their soul!</p>

<p>For they have brought disaster upon themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Tell the righteous “Good!”</p>

<p>For they shall eat the fruit of their deeds.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Woe to the wicked!</p>

<p>Disaster is upon them;</p>

<p>for the deeds of his hands will be paid back to him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As for my people, children are their oppressors,</p>

<p>and women rule over them.</p>

<p>My people, those who lead you cause you to err,</p>

<p>and destroy the way of your paths.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yahweh stands up to contend,</p>

<p>and stands to judge the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh will enter into judgment with the elders of his people,</p>

<p>and their leaders:</p>

<p>“It is you who have eaten up the vineyard.</p>

<p>The plunder of the poor is in your houses.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What do you mean that you crush my people,</p>

<p>and grind the face of the poor?” says the Lord, Yahweh of Armies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover Yahweh said, “Because the daughters of Zion are haughty,</p>

<p>and walk with outstretched necks and flirting eyes,</p>

<p>walking to trip as they go,</p>

<p>jingling ornaments on their feet;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> therefore the Lord brings sores on the crown of the head of the women of Zion,</p>

<p>and Yahweh will make their scalps bald.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day the Lord will take away the beauty of their anklets, the headbands, the crescent necklaces, <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> the earrings, the bracelets, the veils, <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> the headdresses, the ankle chains, the sashes, the perfume bottles, the charms, <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> the signet rings, the nose rings, <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> the fine robes, the capes, the cloaks, the purses, <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> the hand mirrors, the fine linen garments, the tiaras, and the shawls.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> It shall happen that instead of sweet spices, there shall be rottenness;</p>

<p>instead of a belt, a rope;</p>

<p>instead of well set hair, baldness;</p>

<p>instead of a robe, a wearing of sackcloth;</p>

<p>and branding instead of beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Your men shall fall by the sword,</p>

<p>and your mighty in the war.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Her gates shall lament and mourn;</p>

<p>and she shall be desolate and sit on the ground.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>