<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, heavens,</p>

<p>and listen, earth; for Yahweh<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> has spoken:</p>

<p>“I have nourished and brought up children,</p>

<p>and they have rebelled against me.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The ox knows his owner,</p>

<p>and the donkey his master’s crib;</p>

<p>but Israel doesn’t know,</p>

<p>my people don’t consider.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ah sinful nation,</p>

<p>a people loaded with iniquity,</p>

<p>offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of evildoers,</p>

<p>children who deal corruptly!</p>

<p>They have forsaken Yahweh.</p>

<p>They have despised the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p>They are estranged and backward.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why should you be beaten more,</p>

<p>that you revolt more and more?</p>

<p>The whole head is sick,</p>

<p>and the whole heart faint.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> From the sole of the foot even to the head there is no soundness in it:</p>

<p>wounds, welts, and open sores.</p>

<p>They haven’t been closed, neither bandaged, neither soothed with oil.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your country is desolate.</p>

<p>Your cities are burned with fire.</p>

<p>Strangers devour your land in your presence,</p>

<p>and it is desolate,</p>

<p>as overthrown by strangers.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The daughter of Zion is left like a shelter in a vineyard,</p>

<p>like a hut in a field of melons,</p>

<p>like a besieged city.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Unless Yahweh of Armies had left to us a very small remnant,</p>

<p>we would have been as Sodom;</p>

<p>we would have been like Gomorrah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear Yahweh’s word, you rulers of Sodom!</p>

<p>Listen to the law of our God,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> you people of Gomorrah!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “What are the multitude of your sacrifices to me?”, says Yahweh.</p>

<p>“I have had enough of the burnt offerings of rams,</p>

<p>and the fat of fed animals.</p>

<p>I don’t delight in the blood of bulls,</p>

<p>or of lambs,</p>

<p>or of male goats.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When you come to appear before me,</p>

<p>who has required this at your hand, to trample my courts?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Bring no more vain offerings.</p>

<p>Incense is an abomination to me;</p>

<p>new moons, Sabbaths, and convocations:</p>

<p>I can’t bear with evil assemblies.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My soul hates your New Moons and your appointed feasts.</p>

<p>They are a burden to me.</p>

<p>I am weary of bearing them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you.</p>

<p>Yes, when you make many prayers, I will not hear.</p>

<p>Your hands are full of blood.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Wash yourselves, make yourself clean.</p>

<p>Put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes.</p>

<p>Cease to do evil.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Learn to do well.</p>

<p>Seek justice.</p>

<p>Relieve the oppressed.</p>

<p>Judge the fatherless.</p>

<p>Plead for the widow.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Come now, and let us reason together,” says Yahweh:</p>

<p>“Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow.</p>

<p>Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If you are willing and obedient,</p>

<p>you shall eat the good of the land;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured with the sword;</p>

<p>for the mouth of Yahweh has spoken it.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> How the faithful city has become a prostitute!</p>

<p>She was full of justice; righteousness lodged in her,</p>

<p>but now murderers.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Your silver has become dross,</p>

<p>your wine mixed with water.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Your princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves.</p>

<p>Everyone loves bribes, and follows after rewards.</p>

<p>They don’t judge the fatherless,</p>

<p>neither does the cause of the widow come to them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore the Lord,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> Yahweh of Armies,</p>

<p>the Mighty One of Israel, says:</p>

<p>“Ah, I will get relief from my adversaries,</p>

<p>and avenge myself on my enemies;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and I will turn my hand on you,</p>

<p>thoroughly purge away your dross,</p>

<p>and will take away all your tin.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I will restore your judges as at the first,</p>

<p>and your counselors as at the beginning.</p>

<p>Afterward you shall be called ‘The city of righteousness,</p>

<p>a faithful town.’</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Zion shall be redeemed with justice,</p>

<p>and her converts with righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But the destruction of transgressors and sinners shall be together,</p>

<p>and those who forsake Yahweh shall be consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which you have desired,</p>

<p>and you shall be confounded for the gardens that you have chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For you shall be as an oak whose leaf fades,</p>

<p>and as a garden that has no water.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The strong will be like tinder,</p>

<p>and his work like a spark.</p>

<p>They will both burn together,</p>

<p>and no one will quench them.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.” </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>tin is a metal that is separated from silver during the refining and purification process.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>