<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This is what Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It shall happen in the latter days, that the mountain of Yahweh’s house shall be established on the top of the mountains,</p>

<p>and shall be raised above the hills;</p>

<p>and all nations shall flow to it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Many peoples shall go and say,</p>

<p>“Come, let’s go up to the mountain of Yahweh,</p>

<p>to the house of the God of Jacob;</p>

<p>and he will teach us of his ways,</p>

<p>and we will walk in his paths.”</p>

<p>For out of Zion the law shall go out,</p>

<p>and Yahweh’s word from Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will judge between the nations,</p>

<p>and will decide concerning many peoples;</p>

<p>and they shall beat their swords into plowshares,</p>

<p>and their spears into pruning hooks.</p>

<p>Nation shall not lift up sword against nation,</p>

<p>neither shall they learn war any more.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> House of Jacob, come, and let us walk in the light of Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For you have forsaken your people, the house of Jacob,</p>

<p>because they are filled from the east,</p>

<p>with those who practice divination like the Philistines,</p>

<p>and they clasp hands with the children of foreigners.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their land is full of silver and gold,</p>

<p>neither is there any end of their treasures.</p>

<p>Their land also is full of horses,</p>

<p>neither is there any end of their chariots.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their land also is full of idols.</p>

<p>They worship the work of their own hands,</p>

<p>that which their own fingers have made.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Man is brought low,</p>

<p>and mankind is humbled;</p>

<p>therefore don’t forgive them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Enter into the rock,</p>

<p>and hide in the dust,</p>

<p>from before the terror of Yahweh,</p>

<p>and from the glory of his majesty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The lofty looks of man will be brought low,</p>

<p>the haughtiness of men will be bowed down,</p>

<p>and Yahweh alone will be exalted in that day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For there will be a day of Yahweh of Armies for all that is proud and haughty,</p>

<p>and for all that is lifted up;</p>

<p>and it shall be brought low:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For all the cedars of Lebanon, that are high and lifted up,</p>

<p>for all the oaks of Bashan,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For all the high mountains,</p>

<p>for all the hills that are lifted up,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For every lofty tower,</p>

<p>for every fortified wall,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For all the ships of Tarshish,</p>

<p>and for all pleasant imagery.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The loftiness of man shall be bowed down,</p>

<p>and the haughtiness of men shall be brought low;</p>

<p>and Yahweh alone shall be exalted in that day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The idols shall utterly pass away.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Men shall go into the caves of the rocks,</p>

<p>and into the holes of the earth,</p>

<p>from before the terror of Yahweh,</p>

<p>and from the glory of his majesty,</p>

<p>when he arises to shake the earth mightily.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In that day, men shall cast away their idols of silver,</p>

<p>and their idols of gold,</p>

<p>which have been made for themselves to worship,</p>

<p>to the moles and to the bats;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To go into the caverns of the rocks,</p>

<p>and into the clefts of the ragged rocks,</p>

<p>from before the terror of Yahweh,</p>

<p>and from the glory of his majesty,</p>

<p>when he arises to shake the earth mightily.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Stop trusting in man, whose breath is in his nostrils;</p>

<p>for of what account is he?</p>

</body>
</html>