<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 46</h2>

<p><a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bel bows down.</p>

<p>Nebo stoops.</p>

<p>Their idols are carried by animals,</p>

<p>and on the livestock.</p>

<p>The things that you carried around are heavy loads,</p>

<p>a burden for the weary.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They stoop and they bow down together.</p>

<p>They could not deliver the burden,</p>

<p>but they have gone into captivity.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Listen to me, house of Jacob,</p>

<p>and all the remnant of the house of Israel,</p>

<p>that have been carried from their birth,</p>

<p>that have been carried from the womb.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Even to old age I am he,</p>

<p>and even to gray hairs I will carry you.</p>

<p>I have made, and I will bear.</p>

<p>Yes, I will carry, and will deliver.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “To whom will you liken me, and consider my equal,</p>

<p>and compare me, that we may be equal?</p>

<p><a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Some pour out gold from the bag,</p>

<p>and weigh silver in the balance.</p>

<p>They hire a goldsmith,</p>

<p>and he makes it a god.</p>

<p>They fall down—</p>

<p>yes, they worship.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They bear it on their shoulder.</p>

<p>They carry it, and set it in its place, and it stands there.</p>

<p>It cannot move from its place.</p>

<p>Yes, one may cry to it, yet it can not answer.</p>

<p>It cannot save him out of his trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Remember this, and show yourselves men.</p>

<p>Bring it to mind again, you transgressors.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember the former things of old:</p>

<p>for I am God, and there is no other.</p>

<p>I am God, and there is none like me.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I declare the end from the beginning,</p>

<p>and from ancient times things that are not yet done.</p>

<p>I say: My counsel will stand,</p>

<p>and I will do all that I please.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I call a ravenous bird from the east,</p>

<p>the man of my counsel from a far country.</p>

<p>Yes, I have spoken.</p>

<p>I will also bring it to pass.</p>

<p>I have planned.</p>

<p>I will also do it.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Listen to me, you stubborn-hearted,</p>

<p>who are far from righteousness!</p>

<p><a id="c46_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I bring my righteousness near.</p>

<p>It is not far off,</p>

<p>and my salvation will not wait.</p>

<p>I will grant salvation to Zion,</p>

<p>my glory to Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>