<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Behold, my servant, whom I uphold;</p>

<p>my chosen, in whom my soul delights—</p>

<p>I have put my Spirit on him.</p>

<p>He will bring justice to the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He will not shout,</p>

<p>nor raise his voice,</p>

<p>nor cause it to be heard in the street.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He won’t break a bruised reed.</p>

<p>He won’t quench a dimly burning wick.</p>

<p>He will faithfully bring justice.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will not fail nor be discouraged,</p>

<p>until he has set justice in the earth,</p>

<p>and the islands will wait for his law.”</p>

<p><a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus says God Yahweh,</p>

<p>he who created the heavens and stretched them out,</p>

<p>he who spread out the earth and that which comes out of it,</p>

<p>he who gives breath to its people and spirit to those who walk in it.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “I, Yahweh, have called you in righteousness,</p>

<p>and will hold your hand,</p>

<p>and will keep you,</p>

<p>and make you a covenant for the people,</p>

<p>as a light for the nations;</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> to open the blind eyes,</p>

<p>to bring the prisoners out of the dungeon,</p>

<p>and those who sit in darkness out of the prison.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “I am Yahweh.</p>

<p>That is my name.</p>

<p>I will not give my glory to another,</p>

<p>nor my praise to engraved images.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the former things have happened,</p>

<p>and I declare new things.</p>

<p>I tell you about them before they come up.”</p>

<p><a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Sing to Yahweh a new song,</p>

<p>and his praise from the end of the earth,</p>

<p>you who go down to the sea,</p>

<p>and all that is therein,</p>

<p>the islands and their inhabitants.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the wilderness and its cities raise their voices,</p>

<p>with the villages that Kedar inhabits.</p>

<p>Let the inhabitants of Sela sing.</p>

<p>Let them shout from the top of the mountains!</p>

<p><a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let them give glory to Yahweh,</p>

<p>and declare his praise in the islands.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yahweh will go out like a mighty man.</p>

<p>He will stir up zeal like a man of war.</p>

<p>He will raise a war cry.</p>

<p>Yes, he will shout aloud.</p>

<p>He will triumph over his enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “I have been silent a long time.</p>

<p>I have been quiet and restrained myself.</p>

<p>Now I will cry out like a travailing woman. I will both gasp and pant.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will destroy mountains and hills,</p>

<p>and dry up all their herbs.</p>

<p>I will make the rivers islands,</p>

<p>and will dry up the pools.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will bring the blind by a way that they don’t know.</p>

<p>I will lead them in paths that they don’t know.</p>

<p>I will make darkness light before them,</p>

<p>and crooked places straight.</p>

<p>I will do these things,</p>

<p>and I will not forsake them.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “Those who trust in engraved images,</p>

<p>who tell molten images,</p>

<p>‘You are our gods’</p>

<p>will be turned back.</p>

<p>They will be utterly disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Hear, you deaf,</p>

<p>and look, you blind,</p>

<p>that you may see.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who is blind, but my servant?</p>

<p>Or who is as deaf as my messenger whom I send?</p>

<p>Who is as blind as he who is at peace,</p>

<p>and as blind as Yahweh’s servant?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You see many things, but don’t observe.</p>

<p>His ears are open, but he doesn’t listen.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It pleased Yahweh, for his righteousness’ sake, to magnify the law,</p>

<p>and make it honorable.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But this is a robbed and plundered people.</p>

<p>All of them are snared in holes,</p>

<p>and they are hidden in prisons.</p>

<p>They have become captives, and no one delivers;</p>

<p>and a plunder, and no one says, ‘Restore them!’</p>

<p><a id="c42_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who is there among you who will give ear to this?</p>

<p>Who will listen and hear for the time to come?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Who gave Jacob as plunder,</p>

<p>and Israel to the robbers?</p>

<p>Didn’t Yahweh, he against whom we have sinned?</p>

<p>For they would not walk in his ways,</p>

<p>and they disobeyed his law.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore he poured the fierceness of his anger on him,</p>

<p>and the strength of battle;</p>

<p>and it set him on fire all around, but he didn’t know;</p>

<p>and it burned him, but he didn’t take it to heart.”</p>

</body>
</html>