<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Come near, you nations, to hear!</p>

<p>Listen, you peoples.</p>

<p>Let the earth and all it contains hear;</p>

<p>the world, and everything that comes from it.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For Yahweh is enraged against all the nations,</p>

<p>and angry with all their armies.</p>

<p>He has utterly destroyed them.</p>

<p>He has given them over for slaughter.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Their slain will also be cast out,</p>

<p>and the stench of their dead bodies will come up;</p>

<p>and the mountains will melt in their blood.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> All of the army of the sky will be dissolved.</p>

<p>The sky will be rolled up like a scroll,</p>

<p>and all its armies will fade away,</p>

<p>as a leaf fades from off a vine or a fig tree.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For my sword has drunk its fill in the sky.</p>

<p>Behold, it will come down on Edom,</p>

<p>and on the people of my curse, for judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh’s sword is filled with blood.</p>

<p>It is covered with fat, with the blood of lambs and goats,</p>

<p>with the fat of the kidneys of rams;</p>

<p>for Yahweh has a sacrifice in Bozrah,</p>

<p>And a great slaughter in the land of Edom.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The wild oxen will come down with them,</p>

<p>and the young bulls with the mighty bulls;</p>

<p>and their land will be drunken with blood,</p>

<p>and their dust made greasy with fat.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Yahweh has a day of vengeance,</p>

<p>a year of recompense for the cause of Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Its streams will be turned into pitch,</p>

<p>its dust into sulfur,</p>

<p>And its land will become burning pitch.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> It won’t be quenched night nor day.</p>

<p>Its smoke will go up forever.</p>

<p>From generation to generation, it will lie waste.</p>

<p>No one will pass through it forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the pelican and the porcupine will possess it.</p>

<p>The owl and the raven will dwell in it.</p>

<p>He will stretch the line of confusion over it,</p>

<p>and the plumb line of emptiness.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They shall call its nobles to the kingdom, but none shall be there;</p>

<p>and all its princes shall be nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thorns will come up in its palaces,</p>

<p>nettles and thistles in its fortresses;</p>

<p>and it will be a habitation of jackals,</p>

<p>a court for ostriches.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wild animals of the desert will meet with the wolves,</p>

<p>and the wild goat will cry to his fellow.</p>

<p>Yes, the night creature<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> shall settle there,</p>

<p>and shall find herself a place of rest.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The arrow snake will make her nest there,</p>

<p>and lay, hatch, and gather under her shade.</p>

<p>Yes, the kites will be gathered there, every one with her mate.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Search in the book of Yahweh, and read:</p>

<p>not one of these will be missing.</p>

<p>none will lack her mate.</p>

<p>For my mouth has commanded,</p>

<p>and his Spirit has gathered them.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He has cast the lot for them,</p>

<p>and his hand has divided it to them with a measuring line.</p>

<p>They shall possess it forever.</p>

<p>From generation to generation they will dwell in it.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>literally, lilith, which could also be a night demon or night monster</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>