<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 58</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 58</h2>

<p><a id="c58_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Cry aloud, don’t spare.</p>

<p>Lift up your voice like a trumpet.</p>

<p>Declare to my people their disobedience,</p>

<p>and to the house of Jacob their sins.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yet they seek me daily,</p>

<p>and delight to know my ways.</p>

<p>As a nation that did righteousness,</p>

<p>and didn’t forsake the ordinance of their God,</p>

<p>they ask of me righteous judgments.</p>

<p>They delight to draw near to God.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> ‘Why have we fasted,’ say they, ‘and you don’t see?</p>

<p>Why have we afflicted our soul, and you don’t notice?’</p>

<p>“Behold, in the day of your fast you find pleasure,</p>

<p>and oppress all your laborers.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, you fast for strife and contention,</p>

<p>and to strike with the fist of wickedness.</p>

<p>You don’t fast today so as to make your voice to be heard on high.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Is this the fast that I have chosen?</p>

<p>A day for a man to humble his soul?</p>

<p>Is it to bow down his head like a reed,</p>

<p>and to spread sackcloth and ashes under himself?</p>

<p>Will you call this a fast,</p>

<p>and an acceptable day to Yahweh?</p>

<p><a id="c58_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Isn’t this the fast that I have chosen:</p>

<p>to release the bonds of wickedness,</p>

<p>to undo the straps of the yoke,</p>

<p>to let the oppressed go free,</p>

<p>and that you break every yoke?</p>

<p><a id="c58_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Isn’t it to distribute your bread to the hungry,</p>

<p>and that you bring the poor who are cast out to your house?</p>

<p>When you see the naked,</p>

<p>that you cover him;</p>

<p>and that you not hide yourself from your own flesh?</p>

<p><a id="c58_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then your light will break out as the morning,</p>

<p>and your healing will appear quickly;</p>

<p>then your righteousness shall go before you;</p>

<p>and Yahweh’s glory will be your rear guard.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then you will call, and Yahweh will answer;</p>

<p>you will cry for help, and he will say, ‘Here I am.’</p>

<p>“If you take away from among you the yoke,</p>

<p>finger pointing,</p>

<p>and speaking wickedly;</p>

<p><a id="c58_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and if you pour out your soul to the hungry,</p>

<p>and satisfy the afflicted soul:</p>

<p>then your light will rise in darkness,</p>

<p>and your obscurity will be as the noonday;</p>

<p><a id="c58_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Yahweh will guide you continually,</p>

<p>and satisfy your soul in dry places,</p>

<p>and make your bones strong;</p>

<p>and you shall be like a watered garden,</p>

<p>and like a spring of water,</p>

<p>whose waters don’t fail.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Those who shall be of you shall build the old waste places;</p>

<p>you shall raise up the foundations of many generations;</p>

<p>and you shall be called Repairer of the Breach,</p>

<p>Restorer of Paths with Dwellings.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “If you turn away your foot from the Sabbath,</p>

<p>from doing your pleasure on my holy day;</p>

<p>and call the Sabbath a delight,</p>

<p>and the holy of Yahweh honorable;</p>

<p>and shall honor it,</p>

<p>not doing your own ways,</p>

<p>nor finding your own pleasure,</p>

<p>nor speaking your own words:</p>

<p><a id="c58_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> then you shall delight yourself in Yahweh;</p>

<p>and I will make you to ride on the high places of the earth;</p>

<p>and I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father:”</p>

<p>for Yahweh’s mouth has spoken it.</p>

</body>
</html>