<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 60</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 60</h2>

<p><a id="c60_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Arise, shine; for your light has come,</p>

<p>and Yahweh’s glory has risen on you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For, behold, darkness will cover the earth,</p>

<p>and thick darkness the peoples;</p>

<p>but Yahweh will arise on you,</p>

<p>and his glory shall be seen on you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Nations will come to your light,</p>

<p>and kings to the brightness of your rising.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Lift up your eyes all around, and see:</p>

<p>they all gather themselves together.</p>

<p>They come to you.</p>

<p>Your sons will come from far away,</p>

<p>and your daughters will be carried in arms.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then you shall see and be radiant,</p>

<p>and your heart will thrill and be enlarged;</p>

<p>because the abundance of the sea will be turned to you.</p>

<p>The wealth of the nations will come to you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A multitude of camels will cover you,</p>

<p>the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah.</p>

<p>All from Sheba will come.</p>

<p>They will bring gold and frankincense,</p>

<p>and will proclaim the praises of Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the flocks of Kedar will be gathered together to you.</p>

<p>The rams of Nebaioth will serve you.</p>

<p>They will be accepted as offerings on my altar;</p>

<p>and I will beautify my glorious house.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Who are these who fly as a cloud,</p>

<p>and as the doves to their windows?</p>

<p><a id="c60_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely the islands will wait for me,</p>

<p>and the ships of Tarshish first,</p>

<p>to bring your sons from far,</p>

<p>their silver and their gold with them,</p>

<p>for the name of Yahweh your God,</p>

<p>and for the Holy One of Israel,</p>

<p>because he has glorified you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Foreigners will build up your walls,</p>

<p>and their kings will serve you:</p>

<p>for in my wrath I struck you,</p>

<p>but in my favor I have had mercy on you.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Your gates also shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night; that men may bring to you the wealth of the nations, and their kings led captive.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For that nation and kingdom that will not serve you shall perish; yes, those nations shall be utterly wasted.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “The glory of Lebanon shall come to you, the cypress tree, the pine, and the box tree together, to beautify the place of my sanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sons of those who afflicted you will come bowing to you;</p>

<p>and all those who despised you will bow themselves down at the soles of your feet.</p>

<p>They will call you Yahweh’s City,</p>

<p>The Zion of the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “Whereas you have been forsaken and hated,</p>

<p>so that no one passed through you,</p>

<p>I will make you an eternal excellency,</p>

<p>a joy of many generations.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You will also drink the milk of the nations,</p>

<p>and will nurse from royal breasts.</p>

<p>Then you will know that I, Yahweh, am your Savior,</p>

<p>your Redeemer,</p>

<p>the Mighty One of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For brass I will bring gold;</p>

<p>for iron I will bring silver;</p>

<p>for wood, brass,</p>

<p>and for stones, iron.</p>

<p>I will also make peace your governor,</p>

<p>and righteousness your ruler.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Violence shall no more be heard in your land,</p>

<p>nor desolation or destruction within your borders;</p>

<p>but you will call your walls Salvation,</p>

<p>and your gates Praise.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sun will be no more your light by day;</p>

<p>nor will the brightness of the moon give light to you,</p>

<p>but Yahweh will be your everlasting light,</p>

<p>and your God will be your glory.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Your sun will not go down any more,</p>

<p>nor will your moon withdraw itself;</p>

<p>for Yahweh will be your everlasting light,</p>

<p>and the days of your mourning will end.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then your people will all be righteous.</p>

<p>They will inherit the land forever,</p>

<p>the branch of my planting,</p>

<p>the work of my hands,</p>

<p>that I may be glorified.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The little one will become a thousand,</p>

<p>and the small one a strong nation.</p>

<p>I, Yahweh, will do this quickly in its time.”</p>

</body>
</html>