<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 43</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 43</h2>

<p><a id="c43_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But now Yahweh who created you, Jacob,</p>

<p>and he who formed you, Israel says:</p>

<p>“Don’t be afraid, for I have redeemed you.</p>

<p>I have called you by your name.</p>

<p>You are mine.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When you pass through the waters, I will be with you;</p>

<p>and through the rivers, they will not overflow you.</p>

<p>When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned,</p>

<p>and flame will not scorch you.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I am Yahweh your God,</p>

<p>the Holy One of Israel,</p>

<p>your Savior.</p>

<p>I have given Egypt as your ransom,</p>

<p>Ethiopia and Seba in your place.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Since you have been precious and honored in my sight,</p>

<p>and I have loved you;</p>

<p>therefore I will give people in your place,</p>

<p>and nations instead of your life.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Don’t be afraid; for I am with you.</p>

<p>I will bring your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> from the east,</p>

<p>and gather you from the west.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will tell the north, ‘Give them up!’</p>

<p>and tell the south, ‘Don’t hold them back!</p>

<p>Bring my sons from far,</p>

<p>and my daughters from the ends of the earth—</p>

<p><a id="c43_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> everyone who is called by my name,</p>

<p>and whom I have created for my glory,</p>

<p>whom I have formed,</p>

<p>yes, whom I have made.’”</p>

<p><a id="c43_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bring out the blind people who have eyes,</p>

<p>and the deaf who have ears.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let all the nations be gathered together,</p>

<p>and let the peoples be assembled.</p>

<p>Who among them can declare this,</p>

<p>and show us former things?</p>

<p>Let them bring their witnesses, that they may be justified;</p>

<p>or let them hear, and say, “That is true.”</p>

<p><a id="c43_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “You are my witnesses,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“With my servant whom I have chosen;</p>

<p>that you may know and believe me,</p>

<p>and understand that I am he.</p>

<p>Before me there was no God formed,</p>

<p>neither will there be after me.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I myself am Yahweh;</p>

<p>and besides me there is no savior.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have declared, I have saved, and I have shown;</p>

<p>and there was no strange god among you.</p>

<p>Therefore you are my witnesses”,</p>

<p>says Yahweh, “and I am God.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yes, since the day was I am he;</p>

<p>and there is no one who can deliver out of my hand.</p>

<p>I will work, and who can hinder it?”</p>

<p><a id="c43_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel says: “For your sake, I have sent to Babylon, and I will bring all of them down as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, in the ships of their rejoicing. <a id="c43_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I am Yahweh, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.”</p>

<p><a id="c43_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh, who makes a way in the sea,</p>

<p>and a path in the mighty waters says:</p>

<p><a id="c43_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> who brings out the chariot and horse,</p>

<p>the army and the mighty man</p>

<p>(they lie down together, they shall not rise;</p>

<p>they are extinct, they are quenched like a wick):</p>

<p><a id="c43_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Don’t remember the former things,</p>

<p>and don’t consider the things of old.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, I will do a new thing.</p>

<p>It springs out now.</p>

<p>Don’t you know it?</p>

<p>I will even make a way in the wilderness,</p>

<p>and rivers in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The animals of the field shall honor me,</p>

<p>the jackals and the ostriches;</p>

<p>because I give water in the wilderness and rivers in the desert,</p>

<p>to give drink to my people, my chosen,</p>

<p><a id="c43_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> the people which I formed for myself,</p>

<p>that they might declare my praise.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yet you have not called on me, Jacob;</p>

<p>but you have been weary of me, Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> You have not brought me of your sheep for burnt offerings;</p>

<p>neither have you honored me with your sacrifices.</p>

<p>I have not burdened you with offerings,</p>

<p>nor wearied you with frankincense.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> You have bought me no sweet cane with money,</p>

<p>nor have you filled me with the fat of your sacrifices;</p>

<p>but you have burdened me with your sins.</p>

<p>You have wearied me with your iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I, even I, am he who blots out your transgressions for my own sake;</p>

<p>and I will not remember your sins.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Put me in remembrance.</p>

<p>Let us plead together.</p>

<p>Declare your case,</p>

<p>that you may be justified.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Your first father sinned,</p>

<p>and your teachers have transgressed against me.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore I will profane the princes of the sanctuary;</p>

<p>and I will make Jacob a curse,</p>

<p>and Israel an insult.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>