<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Of the children of Ammon. Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“Has Israel no sons?</p>

<p>has he no heir?</p>

<p>Why then does Malcam possess Gad,</p>

<p>and his people dwell in its cities?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore behold, the days come,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard against Rabbah of the children of Ammon;</p>

<p>and it shall become a desolate heap,</p>

<p>and her daughters will be burned with fire:</p>

<p>then Israel will possess those who possessed him,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Wail, Heshbon, for Ai is laid waste!</p>

<p>Cry, you daughters of Rabbah!</p>

<p>Clothe yourself in sackcloth.</p>

<p>Lament, and run back and forth among the fences;</p>

<p>for Malcam will go into captivity,</p>

<p>his priests and his princes together.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Why do you boast in the valleys,</p>

<p>your flowing valley, backsliding daughter?</p>

<p>You trusted in her treasures,</p>

<p>saying, ‘Who will come to me?’</p>

<p><a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, I will bring a terror on you,”</p>

<p>says the Lord, Yahweh of Armies,</p>

<p>“from all who are around you.</p>

<p>All of you will be driven completely out,</p>

<p>and there will be no one to gather together the fugitives.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “But afterward I will bring back the captivity of the children of Ammon,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Of Edom. Yahweh of Armies says:</p>

<p>“Is wisdom no more in Teman?</p>

<p>Has counsel perished from the prudent?</p>

<p>Has their wisdom vanished?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Flee! Turn back!</p>

<p>Dwell in the depths, inhabitants of Dedan;</p>

<p>for I will bring the calamity of Esau on him when I visit him.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If grape gatherers came to you,</p>

<p>would they not leave some gleaning grapes?</p>

<p>If thieves came by night,</p>

<p>wouldn’t they steal until they had enough?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But I have made Esau bare,</p>

<p>I have uncovered his secret places,</p>

<p>and he will not be able to hide himself.</p>

<p>His offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is destroyed,</p>

<p>with his brothers and his neighbors;</p>

<p>and he is no more.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Leave your fatherless children.</p>

<p>I will preserve them alive.</p>

<p>Let your widows trust in me.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For Yahweh says: “Behold, they to whom it didn’t pertain to drink of the cup shall certainly drink; and are you he who shall altogether go unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, but you shall surely drink. <a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have sworn by myself,” says Yahweh, “that Bozrah will become an astonishment, a reproach, a waste, and a curse. All its cities will be perpetual wastes.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have heard news from Yahweh,</p>

<p>and an ambassador is sent among the nations,</p>

<p>saying, “Gather yourselves together!</p>

<p>Come against her!</p>

<p>Rise up to the battle!”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “For, behold, I have made you small among the nations,</p>

<p>and despised among men.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> As for your terror,</p>

<p>the pride of your heart has deceived you,</p>

<p>O you who dwell in the clefts of the rock,</p>

<p>who hold the height of the hill,</p>

<p>though you should make your nest as high as the eagle,</p>

<p>I will bring you down from there,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “Edom will become an astonishment.</p>

<p>Everyone who passes by it will be astonished,</p>

<p>and will hiss at all its plagues.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and its neighbor cities,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“no man will dwell there,</p>

<p>neither will any son of man live therein.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “Behold, he will come up like a lion from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation:</p>

<p>for I will suddenly make them run away from it;</p>

<p>and whoever is chosen,</p>

<p>I will appoint him over it.</p>

<p>For who is like me?</p>

<p>Who will appoint me a time?</p>

<p>Who is the shepherd who will stand before me?”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore hear the counsel of Yahweh, that he has taken against Edom;</p>

<p>and his purposes, that he has purposed against the inhabitants of Teman:</p>

<p>Surely they will drag them away,</p>

<p>the little ones of the flock.</p>

<p>Surely he will make their habitation desolate over them.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The earth trembles at the noise of their fall;</p>

<p>there is a cry, the noise which is heard in the Red Sea.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold, he will come up and fly as the eagle,</p>

<p>and spread out his wings against Bozrah.</p>

<p>The heart of the mighty men of Edom at that day will be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Of Damascus:</p>

<p>“Hamath is confounded, and Arpad;</p>

<p>for they have heard evil news,</p>

<p>they are melted away:</p>

<p>there is sorrow on the sea;</p>

<p>it can’t be quiet.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Damascus has grown feeble,</p>

<p>she turns herself to flee,</p>

<p>and trembling has seized on her:</p>

<p>anguish and sorrows have taken hold of her,</p>

<p>as of a woman in travail.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How is the city of praise not forsaken,</p>

<p>the city of my joy?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore her young men shall fall in her streets,</p>

<p>and all the men of war shall be brought to silence in that day,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh of Armies.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus,</p>

<p>and it shall devour the palaces of Ben Hadad.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Of Kedar, and of the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon struck. Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“Arise, go up to Kedar,</p>

<p>and destroy the children of the east.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> They will take their tents and their flocks.</p>

<p>they will carry away for themselves their curtains,</p>

<p>all their vessels, and their camels;</p>

<p>and they will cry to them, Terror on every side!</p>

<p><a id="c49_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Flee!</p>

<p>Wander far off!</p>

<p>Dwell in the depths, you inhabitants of Hazor,” says Yahweh;</p>

<p>“for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has taken counsel against you,</p>

<p>and has conceived a purpose against you.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Arise! Go up to a nation that is at ease,</p>

<p>that dwells without care,” says Yahweh;</p>

<p>“that has neither gates nor bars,</p>

<p>that dwells alone.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Their camels will be a booty,</p>

<p>and the multitude of their livestock a plunder.</p>

<p>I will scatter to all winds those who have the corners of their beards cut off;</p>

<p>and I will bring their calamity from every side of them,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Hazor will be a dwelling place of jackals,</p>

<p>a desolation forever.</p>

<p>No man shall dwell there,</p>

<p>neither shall any son of man live therein.”</p>

<p><a id="c49_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Yahweh’s word that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying, <a id="c49_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> “Yahweh of Armies says:</p>

<p>‘Behold, I will break the bow of Elam,</p>

<p>the chief of their might.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> On Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quarters of the sky,</p>

<p>and will scatter them toward all those winds.</p>

<p>There will be no nation where the outcasts of Elam will not come.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies,</p>

<p>and before those who seek their life;</p>

<p>and I will bring evil on them, even my fierce anger,’ says Yahweh;</p>

<p>‘and I will send the sword after them,</p>

<p>until I have consumed them;</p>

<p><a id="c49_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and I will set my throne in Elam,</p>

<p>and will destroy from there king and princes,’ says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> ‘But it shall happen in the latter days,</p>

<p>that I will bring back the captivity of Elam,’ says Yahweh.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>