<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned as king, instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah. <a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, listened to Yahweh’s words, which he spoke by the prophet Jeremiah.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, “Pray now to Yahweh our God for us.”</p>

<p><a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people; for they had not put him into prison. <a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Pharaoh’s army had come out of Egypt; and when the Chaldeans who were besieging Jerusalem heard news of them, they broke up from Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then came Yahweh’s word to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, <a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, ‘You shall tell the king of Judah, who sent you to me to inquire of me: “Behold, Pharaoh’s army, which has come out to help you, shall return to Egypt into their own land. <a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Chaldeans shall come again, and fight against this city; and they shall take it, and burn it with fire.”’</p>

<p><a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “Yahweh says, ‘Don’t deceive yourselves, saying, “The Chaldeans shall surely depart from us;” for they shall not depart. <a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For though you had struck the whole army of the Chaldeans who fight against you, and there remained but wounded men among them, yes they would each rise up in his tent and burn this city with fire.’”</p>

<p><a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When the army of the Chaldeans had broken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh’s army, <a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> then Jeremiah went out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin, to receive his portion there, in the middle of the people. <a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When he was in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the guard was there, whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah; and he laid hold on Jeremiah the prophet, saying, “You are defecting to the Chaldeans!”</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then Jeremiah said, “That is false! I am not falling away to the Chaldeans.”</p>

<p>But he didn’t listen to him; so Irijah siezed Jeremiah, and brought him to the princes. <a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The princes were angry with Jeremiah, and struck him, and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe; for they had made that the prison.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When Jeremiah had come into the dungeon house, and into the cells, and Jeremiah had remained there many days, <a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> then Zedekiah the king sent, and fetched him. The king asked him secretly in his house, and said, “Is there any word from Yahweh?”</p>

<p>Jeremiah said, “There is.” He said also, “You will be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon.”</p>

<p><a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Moreover Jeremiah said to king Zedekiah, “How have I sinned against you, against your servants, or against this people, that you have put me in prison? <a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now where are your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, ‘The king of Babylon will not come against you, nor against this land?’ <a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now please hear, my lord the king: please let my supplication be presented before you, that you not cause me to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there.”</p>

<p><a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then Zedekiah the king commanded, and they committed Jeremiah into the court of the guard. They gave him daily a loaf of bread out of the bakers’ street, until all the bread in the city was gone. Thus Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard.</p>

</body>
</html>