<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> You are righteous, Yahweh,</p>

<p>when I contend with you;</p>

<p>yet I would reason the cause with you:</p>

<p>why does the way of the wicked prosper?</p>

<p>why are all they at ease who deal very treacherously?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You have planted them, yes, they have taken root;</p>

<p>they grow, yes, they produce fruit.</p>

<p>You are near in their mouth,</p>

<p>and far from their heart.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But you, Yahweh, know me;</p>

<p>you see me, and try my heart toward you.</p>

<p>Pull them out like sheep for the slaughter,</p>

<p>and prepare them for the day of slaughter.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> How long shall the land mourn,</p>

<p>and the herbs of the whole country wither?</p>

<p>For the wickedness of those who dwell therein,</p>

<p>the animals are consumed, and the birds;</p>

<p>because they said,</p>

<p>“He shall not see our latter end.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “If you have run with the footmen,</p>

<p>and they have wearied you,</p>

<p>then how can you contend with horses?</p>

<p>Though in a land of peace you are secure,</p>

<p>yet how will you do in the pride of the Jordan?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For even your brothers, and the house of your father,</p>

<p>even they have dealt treacherously with you;</p>

<p>even they have cried aloud after you!</p>

<p>Don’t believe them,</p>

<p>though they speak beautiful words to you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “I have forsaken my house.</p>

<p>I have cast off my heritage.</p>

<p>I have given the dearly beloved of my soul into the hand of her enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My heritage has become to me as a lion in the forest.</p>

<p>She has uttered her voice against me;</p>

<p>therefore I have hated her.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is my heritage to me as a speckled bird of prey?</p>

<p>Are the birds of prey against her all around?</p>

<p>Go, assemble all the animals of the field,</p>

<p>bring them to devour.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard.</p>

<p>They have trodden my portion under foot.</p>

<p>They have made my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They have made it a desolation.</p>

<p>It mourns to me, being desolate.</p>

<p>The whole land is made desolate,</p>

<p>because no man lays it to heart.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Destroyers have come on all the bare heights in the wilderness;</p>

<p>for the sword of Yahweh devours from the one end of the land even to the other end of the land.</p>

<p>No flesh has peace.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They have sown wheat,</p>

<p>and have reaped thorns.</p>

<p>They have put themselves to pain,</p>

<p>and profit nothing.</p>

<p>You shall be ashamed of your fruits,</p>

<p>because of the fierce anger of Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh says, “Concerning all my evil neighbors, who touch the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit: behold, I will pluck them up from off their land, and will pluck up the house of Judah from among them. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It shall happen, after that I have plucked them up, I will return and have compassion on them; and I will bring them again, every man to his heritage, and every man to his land. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It shall happen, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, to swear by my name, ‘As Yahweh lives;’ even as they taught my people to swear by Baal; then shall they be built up in the middle of my people. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if they will not hear, then I will pluck up that nation, plucking up and destroying it,” says Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>