<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, one of the priests who were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh’s word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> came to him in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, to the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, to the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in the fifth month. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now Yahweh’s word came to me, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you.</p>

<p>Before you were born, I sanctified you.</p>

<p>I have appointed you a prophet to the nations.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then I said, “Ah, Lord<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> Yahweh! Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> I don’t know how to speak; for I am a child.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But Yahweh said to me, “Don’t say, ‘I am a child;’ for you must go to whomever I send you, and you must say whatever I command you. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Don’t be afraid because of them, for I am with you to rescue you,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Yahweh stretched out his hand, and touched my mouth. Then Yahweh said to me, “Behold, I have put my words in your mouth. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, I have today set you over the nations and over the kingdoms, to uproot and to tear down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Moreover Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, “Jeremiah, what do you see?”</p>

<p>I said, “I see a branch of an almond tree.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then Yahweh said to me, “You have seen well; for I watch over my word to perform it.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yahweh’s word came to me the second time, saying, “What do you see?”</p>

<p>I said, “I see a boiling cauldron; and it is tipping away from the north.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then Yahweh said to me, “Out of the north, evil will break out on all the inhabitants of the land. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For, behold, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p>“They will come, and they will each set his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem,</p>

<p>and against all its walls all around, and against all the cities of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will utter my judgments against them concerning all their wickedness,</p>

<p>in that they have forsaken me,</p>

<p>and have burned incense to other gods,</p>

<p>and worshiped the works of their own hands.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “You therefore put your belt on your waist, arise, and say to them all that I command you. Don’t be dismayed at them, lest I dismay you before them. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For, behold, I have made you today a fortified city, an iron pillar, and bronze walls, against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, against its princes, against its priests, and against the people of the land. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They will fight against you, but they will not prevail against you; for I am with you”, says Yahweh, “to rescue you.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.” </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>