<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the residue of the elders of the captivity, and to the priests, to the prophets, and to all the people, whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon, <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (after that Jeconiah the king, the queen mother, the eunuchs, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen, and the smiths, had departed from Jerusalem), <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> by the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon), saying,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says to all the captivity, whom I have caused to be carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon: <a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Build houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat their fruit. <a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Take wives, and father sons and daughters; and take wives for your sons, and give your daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters; and multiply there, and don’t be diminished. <a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Seek the peace of the city where I have caused you to be carried away captive, and pray to Yahweh for it; for in its peace you shall have peace.” <a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel says: “Don’t let your prophets who are among you, and your diviners, deceive you; neither listen to your dreams which you cause to be dreamed. <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For they prophesy falsely to you in my name. I have not sent them,” says Yahweh. <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For Yahweh says, “After seventy years are accomplished for Babylon, I will visit you, and perform my good word toward you, in causing you to return to this place. <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I know the thoughts that I think toward you,” says Yahweh, “thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you hope and a future. <a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You shall call on me, and you shall go and pray to me, and I will listen to you. <a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You shall seek me, and find me, when you shall search for me with all your heart. <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will be found by you,” says Yahweh, “and I will turn again your captivity, and I will gather you from all the nations, and from all the places where I have driven you, says Yahweh; and I will bring you again to the place from where I caused you to be carried away captive.”</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Because you have said, “Yahweh has raised us up prophets in Babylon;” <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh says concerning the king who sits on David’s throne, and concerning all the people who dwell in this city, your brothers who haven’t gone with you into captivity; <a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yahweh of Armies says: “Behold, I will send on them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, and will make them like vile figs, that can’t be eaten, they are so bad. <a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will pursue after them with the sword, with the famine, and with the pestilence, and will deliver them to be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth, to be an object of horror, and an astonishment, and a hissing, and a reproach, among all the nations where I have driven them; <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> because they have not listened to my words,” says Yahweh, “with which I sent to them my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them; but you would not hear,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Hear therefore Yahweh’s word, all you of the captivity, whom I have sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon. <a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and concerning Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, who prophesy a lie to you in my name: “Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and he shall kill them before your eyes. <a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A curse shall be taken up about them by all the captives of Judah who are in Babylon, saying, ‘Yahweh make you like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire;’ <a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> because they have done foolish things in Israel, and have committed adultery with their neighbors’ wives, and have spoken words in my name falsely, which I didn’t command them. I am he who knows, and am witness,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite you shall speak, saying, <a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “Thus speaks Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, saying, ‘Because you have sent letters in your own name to all the people who are at Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, and to all the priests, saying, <a id="c29_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “Yahweh has made you priest in the place of Jehoiada the priest, that there may be officers in Yahweh’s house, for every man who is mad, and makes himself a prophet, that you should put him in the stocks and in shackles. <a id="c29_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Now therefore, why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth, who makes himself a prophet to you, <a id="c29_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> because he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, The captivity is long: build houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat their fruit?”’”</p>

<p><a id="c29_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the ears of Jeremiah the prophet. <a id="c29_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then Yahweh’s word came to Jeremiah, saying, <a id="c29_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “Send to all them of the captivity, saying, ‘Yahweh says concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite: “Because Shemaiah has prophesied to you, and I didn’t send him, and he has caused you to trust in a lie;” <a id="c29_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> therefore Yahweh says, “Behold, I will punish Shemaiah the Nehelamite, and his offspring.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> He shall not have a man to dwell among this people, neither shall he see the good that I will do to my people,” says Yahweh, “because he has spoken rebellion against Yahweh.”’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>