<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> That same year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year, in the fifth month, Hananiah the son of Azzur, the prophet, who was of Gibeon, spoke to me in Yahweh’s house, in the presence of the priests and of all the people, saying, <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Thus speaks Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, saying, ‘I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Within two full years will I bring again into this place all the vessels of Yahweh’s house, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place, and carried to Babylon. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will bring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, with all the captives of Judah, who went to Babylon,’ says Yahweh; ‘for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.’”</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the prophet Jeremiah said to the prophet Hananiah in the presence of the priests, and in the presence of all the people who stood in Yahweh’s house, <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> even the prophet Jeremiah said, “Amen! May Yahweh do so. May Yahweh perform your words which you have prophesied, to bring again the vessels of Yahweh’s house, and all them of the captivity, from Babylon to this place. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Nevertheless listen now to this word that I speak in your ears, and in the ears of all the people: <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The prophets who have been before me and before you of old prophesied against many countries, and against great kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of pestilence. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The prophet who prophesies of peace, when the word of the prophet shall happen, then shall the prophet be known, that Yahweh has truly sent him.”</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Hananiah the prophet took the bar from off the prophet Jeremiah’s neck, and broke it. <a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, “Yahweh says: ‘Even so I will break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon within two full years from off the neck of all the nations.’” Then the prophet Jeremiah went his way.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then Yahweh’s word came to Jeremiah, after that Hananiah the prophet had broken the bar from off the neck of the prophet Jeremiah, saying, <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “Go, and tell Hananiah, saying, ‘Yahweh says, “You have broken the bars of wood, but you have made in their place bars of iron.” <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel says, “I have put a yoke of iron on the neck of all these nations, that they may serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and they will serve him. I have also given him the animals of the field.”’”</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the prophet Jeremiah said to Hananiah the prophet, “Listen, Hananiah! Yahweh has not sent you, but you make this people trust in a lie. <a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore Yahweh says, ‘Behold, I will send you away from off the surface of the earth. This year you will die, because you have spoken rebellion against Yahweh.’”</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So Hananiah the prophet died the same year in the seventh month.</p>

</body>
</html>