<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear the word which Yahweh speaks to you, house of Israel! <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“Don’t learn the way of the nations,</p>

<p>and don’t be dismayed at the signs of the sky;</p>

<p>for the nations are dismayed at them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the customs of the peoples are vanity;</p>

<p>for one cuts a tree out of the forest,</p>

<p>the work of the hands of the workman with the ax.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They deck it with silver and with gold;</p>

<p>they fasten it with nails and with hammers,</p>

<p>that it not move.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are like a palm tree, of turned work,</p>

<p>and don’t speak:</p>

<p>they must be carried,</p>

<p>because they can’t move.</p>

<p>Don’t be afraid of them;</p>

<p>for they can’t do evil,</p>

<p>neither is it in them to do good.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> There is no one like you, Yahweh.</p>

<p>you are great,</p>

<p>and your name is great in might.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who should not fear you,</p>

<p>King of the nations?</p>

<p>For it belongs to you.</p>

<p>Because among all the wise men of the nations,</p>

<p>and in all their royal estate,</p>

<p>there is no one like you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But they are together brutish and foolish,</p>

<p>instructed by idols!</p>

<p>It is just wood.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There is silver beaten into plates, which is brought from Tarshish,</p>

<p>and gold from Uphaz,</p>

<p>the work of the artificer and of the hands of the goldsmith;</p>

<p>Blue and purple are their clothing;</p>

<p>they are all the work of skillful men.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But Yahweh is the true God;</p>

<p>he is the living God,</p>

<p>and an everlasting King.</p>

<p>At his wrath, the earth trembles,</p>

<p>and the nations are not able to withstand his indignation.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “You shall say this to them: ‘The gods that have not made the heavens and the earth, these shall perish from the earth, and from under the heavens.’”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He has made the earth by his power.</p>

<p>he has established the world by his wisdom,</p>

<p>and by his understanding has he stretched out the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> when he utters his voice,</p>

<p>there is a tumult of waters in the heavens,</p>

<p>and he causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth.</p>

<p>He makes lightnings for the rain,</p>

<p>and brings the wind out of his treasuries.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Every man has become brutish and without knowledge;</p>

<p>every goldsmith is disappointed by his engraved image;</p>

<p>for his molten image is falsehood,</p>

<p>and there is no breath in them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They are vanity, a work of delusion.</p>

<p>In the time of their visitation they will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The portion of Jacob is not like these;</p>

<p>for he is the former of all things;</p>

<p>and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance:</p>

<p>Yahweh of Armies is his name.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Gather up your wares out of the land,</p>

<p>you who live under siege.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“Behold, I will sling out the inhabitants of the land at this time,</p>

<p>and will distress them, that they may feel it.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Woe is me because of my injury!</p>

<p>My wound is serious:</p>

<p>but I said,</p>

<p>“Truly this is my grief, and I must bear it.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My tent is destroyed,</p>

<p>and all my cords are broken.</p>

<p>My children have gone away from me, and they are no more.</p>

<p>There is no one to spread my tent any more,</p>

<p>and to set up my curtains.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the shepherds have become brutish,</p>

<p>and have not inquired of Yahweh.</p>

<p>Therefore they have not prospered,</p>

<p>and all their flocks are scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The voice of news, behold, it comes,</p>

<p>and a great commotion out of the north country,</p>

<p>to make the cities of Judah a desolation,</p>

<p>a dwelling place of jackals.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yahweh, I know that the way of man is not in himself:</p>

<p>it is not in man who walks to direct his steps.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yahweh, correct me, but in measure:</p>

<p>not in your anger,</p>

<p>lest you bring me to nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Pour out your wrath on the nations that don’t know you,</p>

<p>and on the families that don’t call on your name:</p>

<p>for they have devoured Jacob.</p>

<p>Yes, they have devoured him and consumed him,</p>

<p>and have laid waste his habitation.</p>

</body>
</html>