<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “At that time,” says Yahweh, “they shall bring out the bones of the kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and the bones of the priests, and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves; <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and they shall spread them before the sun, and the moon, and all the army of the sky, which they have loved, and which they have served, and after which they have walked, and which they have sought, and which they have worshiped: they shall not be gathered, nor be buried, they shall be for dung on the surface of the earth. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue that remain of this evil family, that remain in all the places where I have driven them,” says Yahweh of Armies. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Moreover you shall tell them, ‘Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“‘Shall men fall, and not rise up again?</p>

<p>Shall one turn away, and not return?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why then have the people of Jerusalem fallen back by a perpetual backsliding?</p>

<p>They cling to deceit, they refuse to return.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I listened and heard, but they didn’t say what is right.</p>

<p>No one repents of his wickedness, saying, “What have I done?”</p>

<p>Everyone turns to his course,</p>

<p>as a horse that rushes headlong in the battle.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yes, the stork in the sky knows her appointed times;</p>

<p>and the turtledove, the swallow, and the crane observe the time of their coming;</p>

<p>but my people don’t know Yahweh’s law.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “‘How do you say, “We are wise, and Yahweh’s law is with us?”</p>

<p>But, behold, the false pen of the scribes has worked falsely.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The wise men are disappointed.</p>

<p>They are dismayed and trapped.</p>

<p>Behold, they have rejected Yahweh’s word.</p>

<p>What kind of wisdom is in them?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore will I give their wives to others,</p>

<p>and their fields to those who shall possess them.</p>

<p>For everyone from the least even to the greatest is given to covetousness;</p>

<p>from the prophet even to the priest everyone deals falsely.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They have healed the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, saying,</p>

<p>“Peace, peace,” when there is no peace.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination?</p>

<p>No, they were not at all ashamed,</p>

<p>neither could they blush:</p>

<p>therefore they shall fall among those who fall;</p>

<p>in the time of their visitation they shall be cast down, says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “‘I will utterly consume them, says Yahweh:</p>

<p>no grapes shall be on the vine,</p>

<p>nor figs on the fig tree,</p>

<p>and the leaf shall fade;</p>

<p>and the things that I have given them</p>

<p>shall pass away from them.’”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Why do we sit still?</p>

<p>Assemble yourselves,</p>

<p>and let us enter into the fortified cities,</p>

<p>and let us be silent there;</p>

<p>for Yahweh our God has put us to silence,</p>

<p>and given us water of gall to drink,</p>

<p>because we have sinned against Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> We looked for peace, but no good came;</p>

<p>and for a time of healing, and behold, dismay!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The snorting of his horses is heard from Dan:</p>

<p>at the sound of the neighing of his strong ones the whole land trembles;</p>

<p>for they have come, and have devoured the land and all that is in it;</p>

<p>the city and those who dwell therein.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “For, behold, I will send serpents,</p>

<p>adders among you,</p>

<p>which will not be charmed;</p>

<p>and they shall bite you,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Oh that I could comfort myself against sorrow!</p>

<p>My heart is faint within me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people from a land that is very far off:</p>

<p>“Isn’t Yahweh in Zion?</p>

<p>Isn’t her King in her?”</p>

<p>“Why have they provoked me to anger with their engraved images,</p>

<p>and with foreign vanities?”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “The harvest is past,</p>

<p>the summer is ended,</p>

<p>and we are not saved.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I hurt:</p>

<p>I mourn; dismay has taken hold on me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Is there no balm in Gilead?</p>

<p>is there no physician there?</p>

<p>Why then isn’t the health of the daughter of my people recovered?</p>

</body>
</html>