<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah (the same was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon), <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah, and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying: <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> From the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, even to this day, these twenty-three years, Yahweh’s word has come to me, and I have spoken to you, rising up early and speaking; but you have not listened.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yahweh has sent to you all his servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them (but you have not listened, nor inclined your ear to hear) <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> saying, “Return now everyone from his evil way, and from the evil of your doings, and dwell in the land that Yahweh has given to you and to your fathers, from of old and even forever more. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Don’t go after other gods to serve them or worship them, and don’t provoke me to anger with the work of your hands; and I will do you no harm.”</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Yet you have not listened to me,” says Yahweh; “that you may provoke me to anger with the work of your hands to your own hurt.”</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore Yahweh of Armies says: “Because you have not heard my words, <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> behold, I will send and take all the families of the north,” says Yahweh, “and I will send to Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and will bring them against this land, and against its inhabitants, and against all these nations around. I will utterly destroy them, and make them an astonishment, and a hissing, and perpetual desolations. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Moreover I will take from them the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones, and the light of the lamp. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This whole land shall be a desolation, and an astonishment; and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “It shall happen, when seventy years are accomplished, that I will punish the king of Babylon, and that nation,” says Yahweh, “for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans; and I will make it desolate forever. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will bring on that land all my words which I have pronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, which Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For many nations and great kings shall make bondservants of them, even of them; and I will recompense them according to their deeds, and according to the work of their hands.”</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For Yahweh, the God of Israel, says to me: “take this cup of the wine of wrath at my hand, and cause all the nations, to whom I send you, to drink it. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They shall drink, and reel back and forth, and be mad, because of the sword that I will send among them.”</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then took I the cup at Yahweh’s hand, and made all the nations to drink, to whom Yahweh had sent me: <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, and its kings, and its princes, to make them a desolation, an astonishment, a hissing, and a curse, as it is today; <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Pharaoh king of Egypt, and his servants, and his princes, and all his people; <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and all the mixed people, and all the kings of the land of the Uz, and all the kings of the Philistines, and Ashkelon, and Gaza, and Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod; <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Edom, and Moab, and the children of Ammon; <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and all the kings of Tyre, and all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the isle which is beyond the sea; <a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, and all who have the corners of their beard cut off; <a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and all the kings of Arabia, and all the kings of the mixed people who dwell in the wilderness; <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and all the kings of Zimri, and all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of the Medes; <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and all the kings of the north, far and near, one with another; and all the kingdoms of the world, which are on the surface of the earth: and the king of Sheshach shall drink after them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “You shall tell them, ‘Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel says: “Drink, and be drunk, vomit, fall, and rise no more, because of the sword which I will send among you.”’ <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> It shall be, if they refuse to take the cup at your hand to drink, then you shall tell them, ‘Yahweh of Armies says: “You shall surely drink. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For, behold, I begin to work evil at the city which is called by my name; and should you be utterly unpunished? You shall not be unpunished; for I will call for a sword on all the inhabitants of the earth, says Yahweh of Armies.”’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “Therefore prophesy you against them all these words, and tell them,</p>

<p>“‘Yahweh will roar from on high,</p>

<p>and utter his voice from his holy habitation;</p>

<p>he will mightily roar against his fold.</p>

<p>He will give a shout, as those who tread grapes,</p>

<p>against all the inhabitants of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> A noise shall come even to the end of the earth;</p>

<p>for Yahweh has a controversy with the nations;</p>

<p>he will enter into judgment with all flesh:</p>

<p>as for the wicked, he will give them to the sword,”’ says Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Yahweh of Armies says,</p>

<p>“Behold, evil shall go out from nation to nation,</p>

<p>and a great storm shall be raised up from the uttermost parts of the earth.”</p>

<p><a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The slain of Yahweh shall be at that day from one end of the earth even to the other end of the earth: they shall not be lamented, neither gathered, nor buried; they shall be dung on the surface of the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Wail, you shepherds, and cry;</p>

<p>and wallow in dust, you leader of the flock;</p>

<p>for the days of your slaughter and of your dispersions are fully come,</p>

<p>and you shall fall like a goodly vessel.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The shepherds shall have no way to flee,</p>

<p>nor the leader of the flock to escape.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> A voice of the cry of the shepherds,</p>

<p>and the wailing of the leader of the flock,</p>

<p>for Yahweh lays waste their pasture.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The peaceable folds are brought to silence</p>

<p>because of the fierce anger of Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He has left his covert, as the lion;</p>

<p>for their land has become an astonishment because of the fierceness of the oppression,</p>

<p>and because of his fierce anger.</p>

</body>
</html>