<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying, <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Yahweh, the God of Israel, says, ‘Write all the words that I have spoken to you in a book. <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, behold, the days come,’ says Yahweh, ‘that I will turn again the captivity of my people Israel and Judah,’ says Yahweh. ‘I will cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall possess it.’”</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These are the words that Yahweh spoke concerning Israel and concerning Judah. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“We have heard a voice of trembling,</p>

<p>of fear, and not of peace.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ask now, and see whether a man travails with child.</p>

<p>Why do I see every man with his hands on his waist, as a woman in travail,</p>

<p>and all faces are turned pale?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Alas! for that day is great, so that none is like it.</p>

<p>It is even the time of Jacob’s trouble;</p>

<p>but he shall be saved out of it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It shall come to pass in that day, says Yahweh of Armies, that I will break his yoke from off your neck,</p>

<p>and will burst your bonds;</p>

<p>and strangers shall no more make them their bondservants;</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but they will serve Yahweh their God,</p>

<p>and David their king,</p>

<p>whom I will raise up to them.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore don’t you be afraid, O Jacob my servant, says Yahweh;</p>

<p>neither be dismayed, Israel:</p>

<p>for, behold, I will save you from afar,</p>

<p>and your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> from the land of their captivity.</p>

<p>Jacob shall return,</p>

<p>and shall be quiet and at ease,</p>

<p>and no one shall make him afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I am with you, says Yahweh, to save you;</p>

<p>for I will make a full end of all the nations where I have scattered you,</p>

<p>but I will not make a full end of you;</p>

<p>but I will correct you in measure,</p>

<p>and will in no way leave you unpunished.”</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“Your hurt is incurable,</p>

<p>and your wound grievous.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> There is no one to plead your cause,</p>

<p>that you may be bound up.</p>

<p>You have no healing medicines.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> All your lovers have forgotten you.</p>

<p>They don’t seek you:</p>

<p>for I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy,</p>

<p>with the chastisement of a cruel one,</p>

<p>for the greatness of your iniquity,</p>

<p>because your sins were increased.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Why do you cry for your hurt?</p>

<p>Your pain is incurable:</p>

<p>for the greatness of your iniquity,</p>

<p>because your sins were increased,</p>

<p>I have done these things to you.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore all those who devour you shall be devoured;</p>

<p>and all your adversaries, everyone of them, shall go into captivity;</p>

<p>and those who plunder you shall be plunder,</p>

<p>and all who prey on you will I give for a prey.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I will restore health to you,</p>

<p>and I will heal you of your wounds,” says Yahweh;</p>

<p>“because they have called you an outcast,</p>

<p>saying, ‘It is Zion, whom no man seeks after.’”</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“Behold, I will turn again the captivity of Jacob’s tents,</p>

<p>and have compassion on his dwelling places.</p>

<p>The city shall be built on its own hill,</p>

<p>and the palace shall be inhabited in its own place.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Out of them shall proceed thanksgiving</p>

<p>and the voice of those who make merry.</p>

<p>I will multiply them,</p>

<p>and they shall not be few;</p>

<p>I will also glorify them,</p>

<p>and they will not be small.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Their children also shall be as before,</p>

<p>and their congregation shall be established before me.</p>

<p>I will punish all who oppress them.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Their prince shall be of themselves,</p>

<p>and their ruler shall proceed from among them.</p>

<p>I will cause him to draw near,</p>

<p>and he shall approach to me;</p>

<p>for who is he who has had boldness to approach to me?” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “You shall be my people,</p>

<p>and I will be your God.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Behold, Yahweh’s storm, his wrath, has gone out,</p>

<p>a sweeping storm:</p>

<p>it shall burst on the head of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The fierce anger of Yahweh will not return, until he has executed,</p>

<p>and until he has performed the intentions of his heart.</p>

<p>In the latter days you will understand it.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>