<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, came this word to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying, <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh says to me: “Make bonds and bars, and put them on your neck. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then send them to the king of Edom, and to the king of Moab, and to the king of the children of Ammon, and to the king of Tyre, and to the king of Sidon, by the hand of the messengers who come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give them a command to their masters, saying, ‘Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel says, “You shall tell your masters: <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> ‘I have made the earth, the men and the animals that are on the surface of the earth, by my great power and by my outstretched arm; and I give it to whom it seems right to me. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now I have given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant; and I have also given the animals of the field to him to serve him. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the nations will serve him, and his son, and his son’s son, until the time of his own land comes. Then many nations and great kings will make him their bondservant.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “‘“‘It will happen that the nation and the kingdom which will not serve the same Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and that will not put their neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, that nation will I punish,’ says Yahweh, ‘with the sword, and with the famine, and with the pestilence, until I have consumed them by his hand. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But as for you, don’t you listen to your prophets, nor to your diviners, nor to your dreams, nor to your soothsayers, nor to your sorcerers, who speak to you, saying, “You shall not serve the king of Babylon;” <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for they prophesy a lie to you, to remove you far from your land, and that I should drive you out, and you should perish. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the nation that shall bring their neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and serve him, that nation will I let remain in their own land,’ says Yahweh; ‘and they shall till it, and dwell therein.’”’”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I spoke to Zedekiah king of Judah according to all these words, saying, “Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and serve him and his people, and live. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Why will you die, you and your people, by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence, as Yahweh has spoken concerning the nation that will not serve the king of Babylon? <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Don’t listen to the words of the prophets who speak to you, saying, ‘You shall not serve the king of Babylon;’ for they prophesy a lie to you. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For I have not sent them,” says Yahweh, “but they prophesy falsely in my name; that I may drive you out, and that you may perish, you, and the prophets who prophesy to you.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Also I spoke to the priests and to all this people, saying, Yahweh says, “Don’t listen to the words of your prophets who prophesy to you, saying, ‘Behold, the vessels of Yahweh’s house shall now shortly be brought again from Babylon;’ for they prophesy a lie to you. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Don’t listen to them. Serve the king of Babylon, and live. Why should this city become a desolation? <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But if they are prophets, and if Yahweh’s word is with them, let them now make intercession to Yahweh of Armies, that the vessels which are left in Yahweh’s house, and in the house of the king of Judah, and at Jerusalem, don’t go to Babylon. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For Yahweh of Armies says concerning the pillars, and concerning the sea, and concerning the bases, and concerning the residue of the vessels that are left in this city, <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon didn’t take, when he carried away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, from Jerusalem to Babylon, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem; <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> yes, Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says concerning the vessels that are left in Yahweh’s house, and in the house of the king of Judah, and at Jerusalem: <a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> ‘They shall be carried to Babylon, and there shall they be, until the day that I visit them,’ says Yahweh; ‘then I will bring them up, and restore them to this place.’”</p>

</body>
</html>