<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word that came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, saying, <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Stand in the gate of Yahweh’s house, and proclaim there this word, and say, ‘Hear Yahweh’s word, all you of Judah, who enter in at these gates to worship Yahweh.’”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel says, “Amend your ways and your doings, and I will cause you to dwell in this place. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Don’t trust in lying words, saying, ‘Yahweh’s temple, Yahweh’s temple, Yahweh’s temple, are these.’ <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For if you thoroughly amend your ways and your doings; if you thoroughly execute justice between a man and his neighbor; <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> if you don’t oppress the foreigner, the fatherless, and the widow, and don’t shed innocent blood in this place, neither walk after other gods to your own hurt: <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> then I will cause you to dwell in this place, in the land that I gave to your fathers, from of old even forever more. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, you trust in lying words, that can’t profit. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will you steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely, and burn incense to Baal, and walk after other gods that you have not known, <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, ‘We are delivered;’ that you may do all these abominations? <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Has this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, I, even I, have seen it,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “But go now to my place which was in Shiloh, where I caused my name to dwell at the first, and see what I did to it for the wickedness of my people Israel. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now, because you have done all these works,” says Yahweh, “and I spoke to you, rising up early and speaking, but you didn’t hear; and I called you, but you didn’t answer: <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> therefore will I do to the house which is called by my name, in which you trust, and to the place which I gave to you and to your fathers, as I did to Shiloh. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will cast you out of my sight, as I have cast out all your brothers, even the whole offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Ephraim.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Therefore don’t pray for this people, neither lift up a cry nor prayer for them, neither make intercession to me; for I will not hear you. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Don’t you see what they do in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem? <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the women knead the dough, to make cakes to the queen of the sky, and to pour out drink offerings to other gods, that they may provoke me to anger. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Do they provoke me to anger? says Yahweh. “Don’t they provoke themselves, to the confusion of their own faces?”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Behold, my anger and my wrath shall be poured out on this place, on man, and on animal, and on the trees of the field, and on the fruit of the ground; and it shall burn, and shall not be quenched.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel says: “Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat meat. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I didn’t speak to your fathers, nor command them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt offerings or sacrifices: <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> but this thing I commanded them, saying, ‘Listen to my voice, and I will be your God, and you shall be my people; and walk in all the way that I command you, that it may be well with you.’ <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But they didn’t listen nor turn their ear, but walked in their own counsels and in the stubbornness of their evil heart, and went backward, and not forward. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Since the day that your fathers came out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have sent to you all my servants the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them: <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> yet they didn’t listen to me, nor did they incline their ear, but made their neck stiff. They did worse than their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “You shall speak all these words to them; but they will not listen to you: you shall also call to them; but they will not answer you. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You shall tell them, ‘This is the nation that has not listened to Yahweh their God’s voice, nor received instruction. Truth has perished, and is cut off from their mouth.’ <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Cut off your hair, and throw it away, and take up a lamentation on the bare heights; for Yahweh has rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “For the children of Judah have done that which is evil in my sight,” says Yahweh. “They have set their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to defile it. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> They have built the high places of Topheth, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire; which I didn’t command, nor did it come into my mind. <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Therefore behold, the days come”, says Yahweh, “that it shall no more be called Topheth, nor The valley of the son of Hinnom, but The valley of Slaughter; for they shall bury in Topheth, until there is no place to bury. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The dead bodies of this people shall be food for the birds of the sky, and for the animals of the earth; and no one shall frighten them away. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then I will cause to cease from the cities of Judah, and from the streets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride; for the land shall become a waste.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>