<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Yahweh said to me, “Though Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my mind would not be toward this people. Cast them out of my sight, and let them go out! <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It shall happen, when they tell you, ‘Where shall we go out?’ Then you shall tell them, ‘Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“Such as are for death, to death;</p>

<p>and such as are for the sword, to the sword;</p>

<p>and such as are for the famine, to the famine;</p>

<p>and such as are for captivity, to captivity.”’</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “I will appoint over them four kinds,” says Yahweh: “the sword to kill, and the dogs to tear, and the birds of the sky, and the animals of the earth, to devour and to destroy. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will cause them to be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth, because of Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, king of Judah, for that which he did in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For who will have pity on you, Jerusalem?</p>

<p>or who will bemoan you?</p>

<p>or who will turn aside to ask of your welfare?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You have rejected me,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p>“You have gone backward:</p>

<p>therefore I have stretched out my hand against you,</p>

<p>and destroyed you;</p>

<p>I am weary with repenting.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have winnowed them with a fan in the gates of the land;</p>

<p>I have bereaved them of children.</p>

<p>I have destroyed my people.</p>

<p>They didn’t return from their ways.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their widows are increased to me above the sand of the seas;</p>

<p>I have brought on them against the mother of the young men a destroyer at noonday.</p>

<p>I have caused anguish and terrors to fall on her suddenly.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> She who has borne seven languishes;</p>

<p>she has given up the spirit.</p>

<p>Her sun has gone down while it was yet day.</p>

<p>She has been disappointed and confounded:</p>

<p>and their residue will I deliver to the sword before their enemies,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Woe is me, my mother, that you have borne me a man of strife</p>

<p>and a man of contention to the whole earth!</p>

<p>I have not lent, neither have men lent to me;</p>

<p>yet everyone of them curses me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh said,</p>

<p>“Most certainly I will strengthen you for good.</p>

<p>Most certainly I will cause the enemy to make supplication to you in the time of evil</p>

<p>and in the time of affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Can one break iron,</p>

<p>even iron from the north, and brass?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Your substance and your treasures will I give for a plunder without price,</p>

<p>and that for all your sins,</p>

<p>even in all your borders.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will make them to pass with your enemies into a land which you don’t know;</p>

<p>for a fire is kindled in my anger,</p>

<p>which shall burn on you.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yahweh, you know;</p>

<p>remember me, and visit me,</p>

<p>and avenge me of my persecutors.</p>

<p>You are patient, so don’t take me away.</p>

<p>Know that for your sake I have suffered reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Your words were found,</p>

<p>and I ate them.</p>

<p>Your words were to me a joy and the rejoicing of my heart,</p>

<p>for I am called by your name, Yahweh, God of Armies.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I didn’t sit in the assembly of those who make merry, nor rejoiced;</p>

<p>I sat alone because of your hand;</p>

<p>for you have filled me with indignation.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Why is my pain perpetual,</p>

<p>and my wound incurable,</p>

<p>which refuses to be healed?</p>

<p>Will you indeed be to me as a deceitful brook,</p>

<p>like waters that fail?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“If you return, then I will bring you again,</p>

<p>that you may stand before me;</p>

<p>and if you take out the precious from the vile,</p>

<p>you shall be as my mouth.</p>

<p>They shall return to you,</p>

<p>but you shall not return to them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I will make you to this people a fortified bronze wall;</p>

<p>and they shall fight against you,</p>

<p>but they shall not prevail against you;</p>

<p>for I am with you to save you</p>

<p>and to deliver you,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “I will deliver you out of the hand of the wicked,</p>

<p>and I will redeem you out of the hand of the terrible.”</p>

</body>
</html>