<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture!” says Yahweh. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore Yahweh, the God of Israel, says against the shepherds who feed my people: “You have scattered my flock, and driven them away, and have not visited them; behold, I will visit on you the evil of your doings,” says Yahweh. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have driven them, and will bring them again to their folds; and they shall be fruitful and multiply. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will set up shepherds over them, who shall feed them; and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be lacking,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Behold, the days come,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“that I will raise to David a righteous Branch,</p>

<p>and he shall reign as king and deal wisely,</p>

<p>and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In his days Judah shall be saved,</p>

<p>and Israel shall dwell safely.</p>

<p>This is his name by which he shall be called:</p>

<p>Yahweh our righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Therefore behold, the days come,” says Yahweh, “that they shall no more say, ‘As Yahweh lives, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;’ <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but, ‘As Yahweh lives, who brought up and who led the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the house of Israel out of the north country, and from all the countries where I had driven them.’ Then they will dwell in their own land.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Concerning the prophets:</p>

<p>My heart within me is broken.</p>

<p>All my bones shake.</p>

<p>I am like a drunken man,</p>

<p>and like a man whom wine has overcome,</p>

<p>because of Yahweh,</p>

<p>and because of his holy words.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the land is full of adulterers;</p>

<p>for because of the curse the land mourns.</p>

<p>The pastures of the wilderness are dried up.</p>

<p>Their course is evil,</p>

<p>and their might is not right;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for both prophet and priest are profane;</p>

<p>yes, in my house I have found their wickedness,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore their way shall be to them as slippery places in the darkness.</p>

<p>They shall be driven on,</p>

<p>and fall therein;</p>

<p>for I will bring evil on them,</p>

<p>even the year of their visitation,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria.</p>

<p>They prophesied by Baal,</p>

<p>and caused my people Israel to err.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In the prophets of Jerusalem also I have seen a horrible thing:</p>

<p>they commit adultery,</p>

<p>and walk in lies.</p>

<p>They strengthen the hands of evildoers,</p>

<p>so that no one returns from his wickedness.</p>

<p>They have all become to me as Sodom,</p>

<p>and its inhabitants as Gomorrah.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore Yahweh of Armies says concerning the prophets:</p>

<p>“Behold, I will feed them with wormwood,</p>

<p>and make them drink the water of gall;</p>

<p>for from the prophets of Jerusalem ungodliness has gone out into all the land.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh of Armies says,</p>

<p>“Don’t listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you.</p>

<p>They teach you vanity.</p>

<p>They speak a vision of their own heart,</p>

<p>and not out of the mouth of Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They say continually to those who despise me,</p>

<p>‘Yahweh has said, “You shall have peace;”’</p>

<p>and to everyone who walks in the stubbornness of his own heart they say,</p>

<p>‘No evil shall come on you.’</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For who has stood in the council of Yahweh,</p>

<p>that he should perceive and hear his word?</p>

<p>Who has listend to my word, and heard it?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, Yahweh’s storm, his wrath, has gone out.</p>

<p>Yes, a whirling storm.</p>

<p>It shall burst on the head of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yahweh’s anger shall not return, until he has executed,</p>

<p>and until he has performed the intents of his heart.</p>

<p>In the latter days, you will understand it perfectly.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I didn’t send these prophets, yet they ran.</p>

<p>I didn’t speak to them, yet they prophesied.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But if they had stood in my council,</p>

<p>then they would have caused my people to hear my words,</p>

<p>and would have turned them from their evil way,</p>

<p>and from the evil of their doings.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “Am I a God at hand,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“and not a God afar off?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Can anyone hide himself in secret places</p>

<p>so that I can’t see him?” says Yahweh.</p>

<p>“Don’t I fill heaven and earth?” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “I have heard what the prophets have said, who prophesy lies in my name, saying, ‘I had a dream! I had a dream!’ <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies, even the prophets of the deceit of their own heart? <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They intend to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams which they each tell his neighbor, as their fathers forgot my name because of Baal. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The prophet who has a dream, let him tell a dream; and he who has my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is the straw to the wheat?” says Yahweh. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “Isn’t my word like fire?” says Yahweh; “and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “Therefore behold, I am against the prophets,” says Yahweh, “who each steal my words from his neighbor. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Behold, I am against the prophets,” says Yahweh, “who use their tongues, and say, ‘He says.’ <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Behold, I am against those who prophesy lying dreams,” says Yahweh, “who tell them, and cause my people to err by their lies, and by their vain boasting; yet I didn’t send them, nor command them; neither do they profit this people at all,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> “When this people, or the prophet, or a priest, shall ask you, saying, ‘What is the message from Yahweh?’ Then you shall tell them, ‘“What message? I will cast you off,” says Yahweh.’ <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> As for the prophet, and the priest, and the people, who say, ‘The message from Yahweh,’ I will even punish that man and his household. <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> You shall say everyone to his neighbor, and everyone to his brother, ‘What has Yahweh answered?’ and, ‘What has Yahweh spoken?’ <a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> You shall mention the message from Yahweh no more: for every man’s own word has become his message; for you have perverted the words of the living God, of Yahweh of Armies, our God. <a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> You shall say to the prophet, ‘What has Yahweh answered you?’ and, ‘What has Yahweh spoken?’ <a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Although you say, ‘The message from Yahweh;’ therefore Yahweh says: ‘Because you say this word, “The message from Yahweh,” and I have sent to you, telling you not to say, “The message from Yahweh;” <a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> therefore, behold, I will utterly forget you, and I will cast you off, and the city that I gave to you and to your fathers, away from my presence. <a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> I will bring an everlasting reproach on you, and a perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>