<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 48</h2>

<p><a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Of Moab. Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says:</p>

<p>“Woe to Nebo!</p>

<p>for it is laid waste;</p>

<p>Kiriathaim is disappointed,</p>

<p>it is taken;</p>

<p>Misgab<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is put to shame</p>

<p>and broken down.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The praise of Moab is no more;</p>

<p>in Heshbon they have devised evil against her:</p>

<p>‘Come, and let us cut her off from being a nation.’</p>

<p>You also, Madmen, will be brought to silence.</p>

<p>The sword will pursue you.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sound of a cry from Horonaim,</p>

<p>desolation and great destruction!</p>

<p><a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Moab is destroyed.</p>

<p>Her little ones have caused a cry to be heard.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For they shall go up by the ascent of Luhith with continual weeping.</p>

<p>For at the descent of Horonaim they have heard the distress of the cry of destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Flee! Save your lives!</p>

<p>Be like the juniper bush in the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For, because you have trusted in your works and in your treasures,</p>

<p>you also shall be taken.</p>

<p>Chemosh will go out into captivity,</p>

<p>his priests and his princes together.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The destroyer will come on every city,</p>

<p>and no city will escape;</p>

<p>the valley also will perish,</p>

<p>and the plain will be destroyed; as Yahweh has spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Give wings to Moab,</p>

<p>that she may fly and get herself away:</p>

<p>and her cities will become a desolation,</p>

<p>without anyone to dwell in them.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Cursed is he who does the work of Yahweh negligently;</p>

<p>and cursed is he who keeps back his sword from blood.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Moab has been at ease from his youth,</p>

<p>and he has settled on his lees,</p>

<p>and has not been emptied from vessel to vessel,</p>

<p>neither has he gone into captivity:</p>

<p>therefore his taste remains in him,</p>

<p>and his scent is not changed.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore behold, the days come,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“that I will send to him those who pour off,</p>

<p>and they shall pour him off;</p>

<p>and they shall empty his vessels,</p>

<p>and break their bottles in pieces.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh,</p>

<p>as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel their confidence.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “How do you say, ‘We are mighty men,</p>

<p>and valiant men for the war?’</p>

<p><a id="c48_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Moab is laid waste,</p>

<p>and they have gone up into his cities,</p>

<p>and his chosen young men have gone down to the slaughter,”</p>

<p>says the King, whose name is Yahweh of Armies.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “The calamity of Moab is near to come,</p>

<p>and his affliction hurries fast.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All you who are around him, bemoan him,</p>

<p>and all you who know his name; say,</p>

<p>‘How is the strong staff broken,</p>

<p>the beautiful rod!’</p>

<p><a id="c48_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “You daughter who dwells in Dibon,</p>

<p>come down from your glory,</p>

<p>and sit in thirst;</p>

<p>for the destroyer of Moab has come up against you,</p>

<p>he has destroyed your strongholds.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the way, and watch:</p>

<p>ask him who flees, and her who escapes;</p>

<p>say, ‘What has been done?’</p>

<p><a id="c48_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Moab is disappointed;</p>

<p>for it is broken down.</p>

<p>Wail and cry!</p>

<p>Tell it by the Arnon, that Moab is laid waste.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Judgment has come on the plain country,</p>

<p>on Holon, and on Jahzah, and on Mephaath,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and on Dibon, and on Nebo, and on Beth Diblathaim,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and on Kiriathaim, and on Beth Gamul, and on Beth Meon,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and on Kerioth, and on Bozrah,</p>

<p>and on all the cities of the land of Moab, far or near.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The horn of Moab is cut off,</p>

<p>and his arm is broken,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “Make him drunken;</p>

<p>for he magnified himself against Yahweh:</p>

<p>and Moab shall wallow in his vomit,</p>

<p>and he also shall be in derision.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For wasn’t Israel a derision to you?</p>

<p>was he found among thieves?</p>

<p>for as often as you speak of him,</p>

<p>you shake your head.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You inhabitants of Moab, leave the cities, and dwell in the rock;</p>

<p>and be like the dove that makes her nest over the mouth of the abyss.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “We have heard of the pride of Moab.</p>

<p>He is very proud; his loftiness, and his pride,</p>

<p>and his arrogance, and the haughtiness of his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I know his wrath,” says Yahweh, “that it is nothing;</p>

<p>his boastings have worked nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore I will wail for Moab.</p>

<p>Yes, I will cry out for all Moab.</p>

<p>They shall mourn for the men of Kir Heres.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> With more than the weeping of Jazer</p>

<p>will I weep for you, vine of Sibmah.</p>

<p>Your branches passed over the sea.</p>

<p>They reached even to the sea of Jazer.</p>

<p>The destroyer has fallen on your summer fruits</p>

<p>and on your vintage.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Gladness and joy is taken away from the fruitful field</p>

<p>and from the land of Moab.</p>

<p>I have caused wine to cease from the wine presses.</p>

<p>No one will tread with shouting.</p>

<p>The shouting will be no shouting.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> From the cry of Heshbon even to Elealeh,</p>

<p>even to Jahaz have they uttered their voice,</p>

<p>from Zoar even to Horonaim, to Eglath Shelishiyah:</p>

<p>for the waters of Nimrim also will become desolate.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Moreover I will cause to cease in Moab,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“him who offers in the high place,</p>

<p>and him who burns incense to his gods.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Therefore my heart sounds for Moab like pipes,</p>

<p>and my heart sounds like pipes for the men of Kir Heres.</p>

<p>Therefore the abundance that he has gotten has perished.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For every head is bald,</p>

<p>and every beard clipped.</p>

<p>There are cuttings on all the hands,</p>

<p>and sackcloth on the waist.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> On all the housetops of Moab,</p>

<p>and in its streets, there is lamentation everywhere;</p>

<p>for I have broken Moab like a vessel in which no one delights,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> “How it is broken down!</p>

<p>How they wail!</p>

<p>How Moab has turned the back with shame!</p>

<p>So shall Moab become a derision</p>

<p>and a terror to all who are around him.”</p>

<p><a id="c48_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For Yahweh says: “Behold, he shall fly as an eagle,</p>

<p>and shall spread out his wings against Moab.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Kerioth is taken,</p>

<p>and the strongholds are seized.</p>

<p>The heart of the mighty men of Moab at that day</p>

<p>shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Moab shall be destroyed from being a people,</p>

<p>because he has magnified himself against Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Terror, the pit, and the snare are on you,</p>

<p>inhabitant of Moab,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> “He who flees from the terror will fall into the pit;</p>

<p>and he who gets up out of the pit will be taken in the snare:</p>

<p>for I will bring on him, even on Moab,</p>

<p>the year of their visitation,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> “Those who fled stand without strength under the shadow of Heshbon;</p>

<p>for a fire has gone out of Heshbon,</p>

<p>and a flame from the middle of Sihon,</p>

<p>and has devoured the corner of Moab,</p>

<p>and the crown of the head of the tumultuous ones.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Woe to you, O Moab!</p>

<p>The people of Chemosh are undone;</p>

<p>for your sons are taken away captive,</p>

<p>and your daughters into captivity.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> “Yet I will bring back the captivity of Moab in the latter days,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p>

<p>Thus far is the judgment of Moab.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, The stronghold</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>