<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Jerusalem was taken, (in the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his army came against Jerusalem, and besieged it. <a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, the ninth day of the month, a breach was made in the city), <a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> all the princes of the king of Babylon came in, and sat in the middle gate, Nergal Sharezer, Samgarnebo, Sarsechim, Rabsaris, Nergal Sharezer, Rabmag, with all the rest of the princes of the king of Babylon. <a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When Zedekiah the king of Judah and all the men of war saw them, then they fled, and went out of the city by night, by the way of the king’s garden, through the gate between the two walls; and he went out toward the Arabah.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But the army of the Chaldeans pursued them, and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho: and when they had taken him, they brought him up to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to Riblah in the land of Hamath; and he gave judgment on him. <a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then the king of Babylon killed the sons of Zedekiah in Riblah before his eyes. The king of Babylon also killed all the nobles of Judah. <a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Moreover he put out Zedekiah’s eyes, and bound him in fetters, to carry him to Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Chaldeans burned the king’s house, and the houses of the people, with fire, and broke down the walls of Jerusalem. <a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive into Babylon the residue of the people who remained in the city, the deserters also who fell away to him, and the residue of the people who remained. <a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left of the poor of the people, who had nothing, in the land of Judah, and gave them vineyards and fields at the same time.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon commanded Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard concerning Jeremiah, saying, <a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Take him, and look well to him, and do him no harm; but do to him even as he shall tell you.”</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard sent, and Nebushazban, Rabsaris, and Nergal Sharezer, Rabmag, and all the chief officers of the king of Babylon; <a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> they sent, and took Jeremiah out of the court of the guard, and committed him to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, that he should carry him home: so he lived among the people.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now Yahweh’s word came to Jeremiah, while he was shut up in the court of the guard, saying, <a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Go, and speak to Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says: ‘Behold, I will bring my words on this city for evil, and not for good; and they shall be accomplished before you in that day. <a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But I will deliver you in that day,’ says Yahweh; ‘and you will not be given into the hand of the men of whom you are afraid. <a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I will surely save you, and you shall not fall by the sword, but your life shall be for a prey to you; because you have put your trust in me,’ says Yahweh.”</p>

</body>
</html>