<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 46</h2>

<p><a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s word which came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Of Egypt: concerning the army of Pharaoh Necoh king of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates in Carchemish, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon struck in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Prepare the buckler and shield,</p>

<p>and draw near to battle!</p>

<p><a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Harness the horses, and get up, you horsemen,</p>

<p>and stand up with your helmets.</p>

<p>Polish the spears,</p>

<p>put on the coats of mail.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why have I seen it?</p>

<p>They are dismayed and are turned backward.</p>

<p>Their mighty ones are beaten down,</p>

<p>have fled in haste,</p>

<p>and don’t look back.</p>

<p>Terror is on every side,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Don’t let the swift flee away,</p>

<p>nor the mighty man escape.</p>

<p>In the north by the river Euphrates</p>

<p>they have stumbled and fallen.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Who is this who rises up like the Nile,</p>

<p>whose waters toss themselves like the rivers?</p>

<p><a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Egypt rises up like the Nile,</p>

<p>and his waters toss themselves like the rivers:</p>

<p>and he says, ‘I will rise up, I will cover the earth.</p>

<p>I will destroy cities and its inhabitants.’</p>

<p><a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Go up, you horses;</p>

<p>and rage, you chariots!</p>

<p>Let the mighty men go out:</p>

<p>Cush and Put, who handle the shield;</p>

<p>and the Ludim, who handle and bend the bow.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For that day is of the Lord, Yahweh of Armies,</p>

<p>a day of vengeance,</p>

<p>that he may avenge himself of his adversaries.</p>

<p>The sword will devour and be satiated,</p>

<p>and will drink its fill of their blood;</p>

<p>for the Lord, Yahweh of Armies, has a sacrifice in the north country by the river Euphrates.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Go up into Gilead, and take balm, virgin daughter of Egypt.</p>

<p>In vain do you use many medicines.</p>

<p>There is no healing for you.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The nations have heard of your shame,</p>

<p>and the earth is full of your cry;</p>

<p>for the mighty man has stumbled against the mighty,</p>

<p>they both fall together.”</p>

<p><a id="c46_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The word that Yahweh spoke to Jeremiah the prophet, how that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon should come and strike the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Declare in Egypt,</p>

<p>publish in Migdol,</p>

<p>and publish in Memphis and in Tahpanhes:</p>

<p>say, ‘Stand up, and prepare;</p>

<p>for the sword has devoured around you.’</p>

<p><a id="c46_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Why are your strong ones swept away?</p>

<p>they didn’t stand, because Yahweh pushed them.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He made many to stumble,</p>

<p>yes, they fell on one another:</p>

<p>and they said, ‘Arise, and let us go again to our own people,</p>

<p>and to the land of our birth,</p>

<p>from the oppressing sword.’</p>

<p><a id="c46_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They cried there, ‘Pharaoh king of Egypt is but a noise;</p>

<p>he has let the appointed time pass by.’</p>

<p><a id="c46_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “As I live,” says the King,</p>

<p>whose name is Yahweh of Armies,</p>

<p>“surely like Tabor among the mountains,</p>

<p>and like Carmel by the sea,</p>

<p>so shall he come.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You daughter who dwells in Egypt,</p>

<p>furnish yourself to go into captivity;</p>

<p>for Memphis shall become a desolation,</p>

<p>and shall be burned up,</p>

<p>without inhabitant.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “Egypt is a very beautiful heifer;</p>

<p>but destruction out of the north has come.</p>

<p>It has come.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Also her hired men in the middle of her are like calves of the stall;</p>

<p>for they also are turned back.</p>

<p>They have fled away together.</p>

<p>They didn’t stand,</p>

<p>for the day of their calamity has come on them,</p>

<p>the time of their visitation.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It’s sound will go like the serpent;</p>

<p>for they shall march with an army,</p>

<p>and come against her with axes, as wood cutters.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They shall cut down her forest,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“though it can’t be searched;</p>

<p>because they are more than the locusts,</p>

<p>and are innumerable.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The daughter of Egypt shall be disappointed;</p>

<p>she shall be delivered into the hand of the people of the north.”</p>

<p><a id="c46_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says: “Behold, I will punish Amon of No, and Pharaoh, and Egypt, with her gods, and her kings; even Pharaoh, and those who trust in him. <a id="c46_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I will deliver them into the hand of those who seek their lives, and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of his servants. Afterwards it shall be inhabited, as in the days of old,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “But don’t you be afraid, Jacob my servant,</p>

<p>neither be dismayed, Israel;</p>

<p>for, behold, I will save you from afar,</p>

<p>and your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> from the land of their captivity.</p>

<p>Jacob will return,</p>

<p>and will be quiet and at ease.</p>

<p>No one will make him afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Don’t be afraid, O Jacob my servant,” says Yahweh;</p>

<p>“for I am with you;</p>

<p>for I will make a full end of all the nations where I have driven you;</p>

<p>but I will not make a full end of you,</p>

<p>but I will correct you in measure,</p>

<p>and will in no way leave you unpunished.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>