<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh says to me, “Go, and buy yourself a linen belt, and put it on your waist, and don’t put it in water.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> So I bought a belt according to Yahweh’s word, and put it on my waist.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh’s word came to me the second time, saying, <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Take the belt that you have bought, which is on your waist, and arise, go to the Euphrates, and hide it there in a cleft of the rock.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So I went, and hid it by the Euphrates, as Yahweh commanded me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> After many days, Yahweh said to me, “Arise, go to the Euphrates, and take the belt from there, which I commanded you to hide there.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then I went to the Euphrates, and dug, and took the belt from the place where I had hidden it; and behold, the belt was ruined. It was profitable for nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “Yahweh says, ‘In this way I, will ruin the pride of Judah, and the great pride of Jerusalem. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> This evil people, who refuse to hear my words, who walk in the stubbornness of their heart, and are gone after other gods to serve them, and to worship them, shall even be as this belt, which is profitable for nothing. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For as the belt clings to the waist of a man, so I have caused to cling to me the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah,’ says Yahweh; ‘that they may be to me for a people, and for a name, and for a praise, and for a glory: but they would not hear.’</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Therefore you shall speak to them this word: ‘Yahweh, the God of Israel says, “Every bottle shall be filled with wine.”’ They will tell you, ‘Do we not certainly know that every bottle shall be filled with wine?’ <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then tell them, ‘Yahweh says, “Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land, even the kings who sit on David’s throne, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, with drunkenness. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will dash them one against another, even the fathers and the sons together,” says Yahweh: “I will not pity, nor spare, nor have compassion, that I should not destroy them.”’”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hear, and give ear.</p>

<p>Don’t be proud;</p>

<p>for Yahweh has spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Give glory to Yahweh your God,</p>

<p>before he causes darkness,</p>

<p>and before your feet stumble on the dark mountains,</p>

<p>and, while you look for light,</p>

<p>he turns it into the shadow of death,</p>

<p>and makes it gross darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if you will not hear it,</p>

<p>my soul shall weep in secret for your pride;</p>

<p>and my eye shall weep bitterly,</p>

<p>and run down with tears,</p>

<p>because Yahweh’s flock is taken captive.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Say to the king and to the queen mother,</p>

<p>“Humble yourselves, sit down;</p>

<p>for your headdresses have come down,</p>

<p>even the crown of your glory.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The cities of the South are shut up,</p>

<p>and there is no one to open them.</p>

<p>Judah is carried away captive, all of it;</p>

<p>it is wholly carried away captive.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Lift up your eyes,</p>

<p>and see those who come from the north.</p>

<p>where is the flock that was given you,</p>

<p>your beautiful flock?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> What will you say, when he shall set over you as head those whom you have yourself taught to be friends to you?</p>

<p>Shall not sorrows take hold of you, as of a woman in travail?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If you say in your heart,</p>

<p>“Why are these things come on me?”</p>

<p>For the greatness of your iniquity your skirts are uncovered,</p>

<p>and your heels suffer violence.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Can the Ethiopian change his skin,</p>

<p>or the leopard his spots?</p>

<p>Then may you also do good,</p>

<p>who are accustomed to do evil.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “Therefore I will scatter them,</p>

<p>as the stubble that passes away,</p>

<p>by the wind of the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> This is your lot,</p>

<p>the portion measured to you from me,” says Yahweh;</p>

<p>“because you have forgotten me,</p>

<p>and trusted in falsehood.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore will I also uncover your skirts on your face,</p>

<p>and your shame shall appear.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I have seen your abominations, even your adulteries,</p>

<p>and your neighing, the lewdness of your prostitution,</p>

<p>on the hills in the field.</p>

<p>Woe to you, Jerusalem!</p>

<p>You will not be made clean; how long shall it yet be?”</p>

</body>
</html>