<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 50</h2>

<p><a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word that Yahweh spoke concerning Babylon, concerning the land of the Chaldeans, by Jeremiah the prophet.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Declare among the nations and publish,</p>

<p>and set up a standard;</p>

<p>publish, and don’t conceal:</p>

<p>say, ‘Babylon has been taken,</p>

<p>Bel is disappointed,</p>

<p>Merodach is dismayed!</p>

<p>Her images are disappointed.</p>

<p>Her idols are dismayed.’</p>

<p><a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For a nation comes up out of the north against her,</p>

<p>which shall make her land desolate,</p>

<p>and no one shall dwell therein.</p>

<p>They have fled.</p>

<p>They are gone,</p>

<p>both man and animal.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “In those days, and in that time,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“the children of Israel will come,</p>

<p>they and the children of Judah together;</p>

<p>they will go on their way weeping,</p>

<p>and will seek Yahweh their God.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They will inquire concerning Zion with their faces turned toward it,</p>

<p>saying, ‘Come, and join yourselves to Yahweh in an everlasting covenant</p>

<p>that shall not be forgotten.’</p>

<p><a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My people have been lost sheep:</p>

<p>their shepherds have caused them to go astray;</p>

<p>they have turned them away on the mountains;</p>

<p>they have gone from mountain to hill;</p>

<p>they have forgotten their resting place.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All who found them have devoured them;</p>

<p>and their adversaries said, ‘We are not guilty,</p>

<p>because they have sinned against Yahweh,</p>

<p>the habitation of righteousness,</p>

<p>even Yahweh, the hope of their fathers.’</p>

<p><a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Flee out of the middle of Babylon!</p>

<p>Go out of the land of the Chaldeans,</p>

<p>and be as the male goats before the flocks.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, behold, I will stir up</p>

<p>and cause to come up against Babylon a company of great nations from the north country;</p>

<p>and they will set themselves in array against her.</p>

<p>She will be taken from there.</p>

<p>Their arrows will be as of an expert mighty man.</p>

<p>None of them will return in vain.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Chaldea shall be a prey.</p>

<p>All who prey on her shall be satisfied,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Because you are glad,</p>

<p>because you rejoice,</p>

<p>O you who plunder my heritage,</p>

<p>because you are wanton as a heifer that treads out the grain,</p>

<p>and neigh as strong horses;</p>

<p><a id="c50_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> your mother will be utterly disappointed.</p>

<p>She who bore you will be confounded.</p>

<p>Behold, she shall be the least of the nations,</p>

<p>a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Because of Yahweh’s wrath she won’t be inhabited,</p>

<p>but she will be wholly desolate.</p>

<p>Everyone who goes by Babylon will be astonished,</p>

<p>and hiss at all her plagues.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Set yourselves in array against Babylon all around,</p>

<p>all you who bend the bow;</p>

<p>shoot at her, spare no arrows:</p>

<p>for she has sinned against Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Shout against her all around.</p>

<p>She has submitted herself.</p>

<p>Her bulwarks have fallen.</p>

<p>Her walls have been thrown down,</p>

<p>for it is the vengeance of Yahweh.</p>

<p>Take vengeance on her.</p>

<p>As she has done, do to her.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Cut off the sower from Babylon,</p>

<p>and him who handles the sickle in the time of harvest.</p>

<p>For fear of the oppressing sword,</p>

<p>they will each return to their own people,</p>

<p>and they will each flee to their own land.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “Israel is a hunted sheep.</p>

<p>The lions have driven him away.</p>

<p>First, the king of Assyria devoured him,</p>

<p>and now at last Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has broken his bones.”</p>

<p><a id="c50_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says:</p>

<p>“Behold, I will punish the king of Babylon and his land,</p>

<p>as I have punished the king of Assyria.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I will bring Israel again to his pasture,</p>

<p>and he will feed on Carmel and Bashan.</p>

<p>His soul will be satisfied on the hills of Ephraim and in Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In those days, and in that time,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“the iniquity of Israel shall be sought for,</p>

<p>and there will be none;</p>

<p>also the sins of Judah,</p>

<p>and they won’t be found;</p>

<p>for I will pardon them whom I leave as a remnant.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “Go up against the land of Merathaim,</p>

<p>even against it, and against the inhabitants of Pekod.</p>

<p>Kill and utterly destroy after them,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“and do according to all that I have commanded you.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A sound of battle is in the land,</p>

<p>and of great destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> How the hammer of the whole earth is cut apart and broken!</p>

<p>How Babylon has become a desolation among the nations!</p>

<p><a id="c50_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I have laid a snare for you,</p>

<p>and you are also taken, Babylon,</p>

<p>and you weren’t aware.</p>

<p>You are found,</p>

<p>and also caught,</p>

<p>because you have fought against Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Yahweh has opened his armory,</p>

<p>and has brought out the weapons of his indignation;</p>

<p>for the Lord, Yahweh of Armies, has a work to do in the land of the Chaldeans.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Come against her from the farthest border.</p>

<p>Open her storehouses.</p>

<p>Cast her up as heaps.</p>

<p>Destroy her utterly.</p>

<p>Let nothing of her be left.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Kill all her bulls.</p>

<p>Let them go down to the slaughter.</p>

<p>Woe to them! For their day has come,</p>

<p>the time of their visitation.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Listen to those who flee and escape out of the land of Babylon,</p>

<p>to declare in Zion the vengeance of Yahweh our God,</p>

<p>the vengeance of his temple.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “Call together the archers against Babylon,</p>

<p>all those who bend the bow.</p>

<p>Encamp against her all around.</p>

<p>Let none of it escape.</p>

<p>Recompense her according to her work.</p>

<p>According to all that she has done, do to her;</p>

<p>for she has been proud against Yahweh,</p>

<p>against the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore her young men will fall in her streets,</p>

<p>and all her men of war will be brought to silence in that day,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “Behold, I am against you, you proud one,” says the Lord, Yahweh of Armies;</p>

<p>“for your day has come,</p>

<p>the time that I will visit you.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The proud one will stumble and fall,</p>

<p>and no one will raise him up.</p>

<p>I will kindle a fire in his cities,</p>

<p>and it shall devour all who are around him.”</p>

<p><a id="c50_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Yahweh of Armies says: “The children of Israel and the children of Judah are oppressed together.</p>

<p>All who took them captive hold them fast.</p>

<p>They refuse to let them go.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Their Redeemer is strong:</p>

<p>Yahweh of Armies is his name.</p>

<p>He will thoroughly plead their cause,</p>

<p>that he may give rest to the earth,</p>

<p>and disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> “A sword is on the Chaldeans,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“and on the inhabitants of Babylon,</p>

<p>on her princes,</p>

<p>and on her wise men.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> A sword is on the boasters,</p>

<p>and they will become fools.</p>

<p>A sword is on her mighty men,</p>

<p>and they will be dismayed.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> A sword is on their horses,</p>

<p>on their chariots,</p>

<p>and on all the mixed people who are in the middle of her;</p>

<p>and they will become as women.</p>

<p>A sword is on her treasures,</p>

<p>and they will be robbed.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> A drought is on her waters,</p>

<p>and they shall be dried up;</p>

<p>for it is a land of engraved images,</p>

<p>and they are mad over idols.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Therefore the wild animals of the desert</p>

<p>with the wolves will dwell there.</p>

<p>The ostriches will dwell therein;</p>

<p>and it will be inhabited no more forever;</p>

<p>neither will it be lived in from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> As when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and its neighbor cities,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“so no man will dwell there,</p>

<p>neither will any son of man live therein.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> “Behold, a people comes from the north;</p>

<p>and a great nation and many kings shall be stirred up from the uttermost parts of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They take up bow and spear.</p>

<p>They are cruel, and have no mercy.</p>

<p>Their voice roars like the sea.</p>

<p>They ride on horses,</p>

<p>everyone set in array,</p>

<p>as a man to the battle,</p>

<p>against you, daughter of Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> The king of Babylon has heard the news of them,</p>

<p>and his hands become feeble:</p>

<p>anguish has taken hold of him,</p>

<p>pains as of a woman in labor.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Behold, the enemy will come up like a lion</p>

<p>from the pride of the Jordan against the strong habitation;</p>

<p>for I will suddenly make them run away from it.</p>

<p>Whoever is chosen,</p>

<p>I will appoint him over it;</p>

<p>for who is like me?</p>

<p>Who will appoint me a time?</p>

<p>Who is the shepherd who can stand before me?”</p>

<p><a id="c50_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Therefore hear the counsel of Yahweh,</p>

<p>that he has taken against Babylon;</p>

<p>and his purposes,</p>

<p>that he has purposed against the land of the Chaldeans:</p>

<p>Surely they shall drag them away,</p>

<p>even the little ones of the flock.</p>

<p>Surely he shall make their habitation desolate over them.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> At the noise of the taking of Babylon the earth trembles;</p>

<p>and the cry is heard among the nations.</p>

</body>
</html>