<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Go, and proclaim in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, ‘Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“I remember for you the kindness of your youth,</p>

<p>the love of your weddings;</p>

<p>how you went after me in the wilderness,</p>

<p>in a land that was not sown.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Israel was holiness to Yahweh,</p>

<p>the first fruits of his increase.</p>

<p>All who devour him shall be held guilty.</p>

<p>Evil shall come on them,”’ says Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Hear Yahweh’s word, O house of Jacob, and all the families of the house of Israel! <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“What unrighteousness have your fathers found in me,</p>

<p>that they have gone far from me,</p>

<p>and have walked after worthless vanity,</p>

<p>and have become worthless?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They didn’t say, ‘Where is Yahweh who brought us up out of the land of Egypt,</p>

<p>who led us through the wilderness,</p>

<p>through a land of deserts and of pits,</p>

<p>through a land of drought and of the shadow of death,</p>

<p>through a land that no one passed through,</p>

<p>and where no man lived?’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I brought you into a plentiful land,</p>

<p>to eat its fruit and its goodness;</p>

<p>but when you entered, you defiled my land,</p>

<p>and made my heritage an abomination.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The priests didn’t say, ‘Where is Yahweh?’</p>

<p>and those who handle the law didn’t know me.</p>

<p>The rulers also transgressed against me,</p>

<p>and the prophets prophesied by Baal,</p>

<p>and followed things that do not profit.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “Therefore I will yet contend with you,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“and I will contend with your children’s children.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For pass over to the islands of Kittim, and see;</p>

<p>and send to Kedar, and consider diligently;</p>

<p>and see if there has been such a thing.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Has a nation changed its gods,</p>

<p>which really are no gods?</p>

<p>But my people have changed their glory for that which does not profit.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Be astonished, you heavens, at this,</p>

<p>and be horribly afraid.</p>

<p>Be very desolate,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “For my people have committed two evils:</p>

<p>they have forsaken me, the spring of living waters,</p>

<p>and cut them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Is Israel a slave?</p>

<p>Is he born into slavery?</p>

<p>Why has he become a captive?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The young lions have roared at him, and yelled.</p>

<p>They have made his land waste.</p>

<p>His cities are burned up, without inhabitant.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The children also of Memphis and Tahpanhes have broken the crown of your head.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “Haven’t you brought this on yourself,</p>

<p>in that you have forsaken Yahweh your God,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> when he led you by the way?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now what do you gain by going to Egypt, to drink the waters of the Shihor?</p>

<p>Or why do you to go on the way to Assyria, to drink the waters of the River?<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “Your own wickedness will correct you,</p>

<p>and your backsliding will rebuke you.</p>

<p>Know therefore and see that it is an evil and bitter thing,</p>

<p>that you have forsaken Yahweh your God,</p>

<p>and that my fear is not in you,” says the Lord, Yahweh of Armies.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “For long ago I broke off your yoke,</p>

<p>and burst your bonds.</p>

<p>You said, ‘I will not serve;’</p>

<p>for on every high hill and under every green tree you bowed yourself,</p>

<p>playing the prostitute.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yet I had planted you a noble vine,</p>

<p>a pure and faithful seed.</p>

<p>How then have you turned into the degenerate branches of a foreign vine to me?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For though you wash yourself with lye,</p>

<p>and use much soap,</p>

<p>yet your iniquity is marked before me,” says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “How can you say, ‘I am not defiled.</p>

<p>I have not gone after the Baals’?</p>

<p>See your way in the valley.</p>

<p>Know what you have done.</p>

<p>You are a swift dromedary traversing her ways; <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> a wild donkey used to the wilderness, that sniffs the wind in her craving.</p>

<p>When she is in heat, who can turn her away?</p>

<p>All those who seek her will not weary themselves. In her month, they will find her.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “Keep your feet from being bare,</p>

<p>and your throat from thirst.</p>

<p>But you said, ‘It is in vain.</p>

<p>No, for I have loved strangers,</p>

<p>and I will go after them.’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> As the thief is ashamed when he is found,</p>

<p>so is the house of Israel ashamed;</p>

<p>they, their kings, their princes, and their priests, and their prophets;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> who tell wood, ‘You are my father;’</p>

<p>and a stone, ‘You have given birth to me:’</p>

<p>for they have turned their back to me,</p>

<p>and not their face;</p>

<p>but in the time of their trouble they will say, ‘Arise, and save us.’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> “But where are your gods that you have made for yourselves?</p>

<p>Let them arise, if they can save you in the time of your trouble:</p>

<p>for you have as many gods as you have towns, O Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “Why will you contend with me?</p>

<p>You all have transgressed against me,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “I have struck your children in vain.</p>

<p>They received no correction.</p>

<p>Your own sword has devoured your prophets,</p>

<p>like a destroying lion.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Generation, consider Yahweh’s word.</p>

<p>Have I been a wilderness to Israel?</p>

<p>Or a land of thick darkness?</p>

<p>Why do my people say, ‘We have broken loose.</p>

<p>We will come to you no more?’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> “Can a virgin forget her ornaments,</p>

<p>or a bride her attire?</p>

<p>Yet my people have forgotten me for days without number.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> How well you prepare your way to seek love!</p>

<p>Therefore you have even taught the wicked women your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Also the blood of the souls of the innocent poor is found in your skirts.</p>

<p>You did not find them breaking in;</p>

<p>but it is because of all these things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> “Yet you said, ‘I am innocent.</p>

<p>Surely his anger has turned away from me.’</p>

<p>“Behold, I will judge you,</p>

<p>because you say, ‘I have not sinned.’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Why do you go about so much to change your ways?</p>

<p>You will be ashamed of Egypt also,</p>

<p>as you were ashamed of Assyria.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> You will also leave that place with your hands on your head;</p>

<p>for Yahweh has rejected those in whom you trust,</p>

<p>and you won’t prosper with them.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>i.e., the Euphrates River</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>