<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh showed me, and behold, two baskets of figs set before Yahweh’s temple, after that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had carried away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and the princes of Judah, with the craftsmen and smiths, from Jerusalem, and had brought them to Babylon. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> One basket had very good figs, like the figs that are first-ripe; and the other basket had very bad figs, which could not be eaten, they were so bad.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Yahweh asked me, “What do you see, Jeremiah?”</p>

<p>I said, “Figs. The good figs are very good, and the bad are very bad, so bad that can’t be eaten.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “Yahweh, the God of Israel says: ‘Like these good figs, so will I regard the captives of Judah, whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans, for good. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I will set my eyes on them for good, and I will bring them again to this land. I will build them, and not pull them down. I will plant them, and not pluck them up. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will give them a heart to know me, that I am Yahweh: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God; for they shall return to me with their whole heart.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “‘As the bad figs, which can’t be eaten, they are so bad,’ surely Yahweh says, ‘So I will give up Zedekiah the king of Judah, and his princes, and the remnant of Jerusalem, who remain in this land, and those who dwell in the land of Egypt. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will even give them up to be tossed back and forth among all the kingdoms of the earth for evil; to be a reproach and a proverb, a taunt and a curse, in all places where I shall drive them. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will send the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, among them, until they be consumed from off the land that I gave to them and to their fathers.’”</p>

</body>
</html>