<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “At that time,” says Yahweh, “I will be the God of all the families of Israel, and they will be my people.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh says, “The people who survive the sword found favor in the wilderness; even Israel, when I went to cause him to rest.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh appeared of old to me, saying,</p>

<p>“Yes, I have loved you with an everlasting love.</p>

<p>Therefore I have drawn you with loving kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will build you again,</p>

<p>and you will be built, O virgin of Israel.</p>

<p>You will again be adorned with your tambourines,</p>

<p>and will go out in the dances of those who make merry.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Again you will plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria.</p>

<p>The planters will plant,</p>

<p>and will enjoy its fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For there will be a day that the watchmen on the hills of Ephraim cry,</p>

<p>‘Arise, and let us go up to Zion to Yahweh our God.’”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“Sing with gladness for Jacob,</p>

<p>and shout for the chief of the nations.</p>

<p>Publish, praise, and say,</p>

<p>‘Yahweh, save your people,</p>

<p>the remnant of Israel!’</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, I will bring them from the north country,</p>

<p>and gather them from the uttermost parts of the earth,</p>

<p>along with the blind and the lame,</p>

<p>the woman with child and her who travails with child together.</p>

<p>They will return as a great company.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They shall come with weeping;</p>

<p>and with petitions will I lead them:</p>

<p>I will cause them to walk by rivers of waters,</p>

<p>in a straight way in which they shall not stumble;</p>

<p>for I am a father to Israel,</p>

<p>and Ephraim is my firstborn.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Hear Yahweh’s word, you nations,</p>

<p>and declare it in the islands afar off; and say,</p>

<p>‘He who scattered Israel will gather him,</p>

<p>and keep him, as a shepherd does his flock.’</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For Yahweh has ransomed Jacob,</p>

<p>and redeemed him from the hand of him who was stronger than he.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They shall come and sing in the height of Zion,</p>

<p>and shall flow to the goodness of Yahweh,</p>

<p>to the grain, and to the new wine, and to the oil,</p>

<p>and to the young of the flock and of the herd:</p>

<p>and their soul shall be as a watered garden;</p>

<p>and they shall not sorrow any more at all.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then the virgin will rejoice in the dance,</p>

<p>and the young men and the old together;</p>

<p>for I will turn their mourning into joy,</p>

<p>and will comfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness,</p>

<p>and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“A voice is heard in Ramah,</p>

<p>lamentation, and bitter weeping,</p>

<p>Rachel weeping for her children;</p>

<p>she refuses to be comforted for her children,</p>

<p>because they are no more.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“Refrain your voice from weeping,</p>

<p>and your eyes from tears;</p>

<p>for your work shall be rewarded,” says Yahweh;</p>

<p>“and they shall come again from the land of the enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There is hope for your latter end,” says Yahweh;</p>

<p>“and your children shall come again to their own border.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus,</p>

<p>‘You have chastised me,</p>

<p>and I was chastised, as an untrained calf:</p>

<p>turn me, and I shall be turned;</p>

<p>for you are Yahweh my God.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Surely after that I was turned,</p>

<p>I repented;</p>

<p>and after that I was instructed,</p>

<p>I struck on my thigh:</p>

<p>I was ashamed, yes, even confounded,</p>

<p>because I bore the reproach of my youth.’</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Is Ephraim my dear son?</p>

<p>is he a darling child?</p>

<p>for as often as I speak against him,</p>

<p>I do earnestly remember him still:</p>

<p>therefore my heart yearns for him;</p>

<p>I will surely have mercy on him,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “Set up road signs,</p>

<p>make guideposts;</p>

<p>set your heart toward the highway,</p>

<p>even the way by which you went:</p>

<p>turn again, virgin of Israel,</p>

<p>turn again to these your cities.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> How long will you go here and there,</p>

<p>you backsliding daughter?</p>

<p>for Yahweh has created a new thing in the earth:</p>

<p>a woman shall encompass a man.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yahweh of Armies, the God of Israel, says: “Yet again shall they use this speech in the land of Judah and in its cities, when I shall bring again their captivity: ‘Yahweh bless you, habitation of righteousness, mountain of holiness.’ <a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Judah and all its cities shall dwell therein together, the farmers, and those who go about with flocks. <a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I have satiated the weary soul, and every sorrowful soul I have replenished.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> On this I awakened, and saw; and my sleep was sweet to me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “Behold, the days come,” says Yahweh, “that I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man, and with the seed of animal. <a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> It shall happen that, like as I have watched over them to pluck up and to break down and to overthrow and to destroy and to afflict, so will I watch over them to build and to plant,” says Yahweh. <a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “In those days they shall say no more,</p>

<p>“‘The fathers have eaten sour grapes,</p>

<p>and the children’s teeth are set on edge.’</p>

<p><a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But everyone shall die for his own iniquity: every man who eats the sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “Behold, the days come,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel,</p>

<p>and with the house of Judah:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt;</p>

<p>which my covenant they broke,</p>

<p>although I was a husband to them,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> “But this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh:</p>

<p>I will put my law in their inward parts,</p>

<p>and in their heart will I write it;</p>

<p>and I will be their God,</p>

<p>and they shall be my people:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and they shall teach no more every man his neighbor,</p>

<p>and every man his brother, saying, ‘Know Yahweh;’</p>

<p>for they shall all know me,</p>

<p>from their least to their greatest,” says Yahweh:</p>

<p>“for I will forgive their iniquity,</p>

<p>and their sin will I remember no more.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Yahweh, who gives the sun for a light by day,</p>

<p>and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night,</p>

<p>who stirs up the sea, so that its waves roar;</p>

<p>Yahweh of Armies is his name, says:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> “If these ordinances depart from before me,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“then the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before me forever.”</p>

<p><a id="c31_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Yahweh says: “If heaven above can be measured,</p>

<p>and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath,</p>

<p>then I will also cast off all the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of Israel for all that they have done,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> “Behold, the days come,” says Yahweh, “that the city shall be built to Yahweh from the tower of Hananel to the gate of the corner. <a id="c31_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> The measuring line shall go out further straight onward to the hill Gareb, and shall turn about to Goah. <a id="c31_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The whole valley of the dead bodies and of the ashes, and all the fields to the brook Kidron, to the corner of the horse gate toward the east, shall be holy to Yahweh; it shall not be plucked up, nor thrown down any more forever.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>