<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus said Yahweh: “Go down to the house of the king of Judah, and speak there this word, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> ‘Hear Yahweh’s word, king of Judah, who sits on David’s throne, you, and your servants, and your people who enter in by these gates. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh says: “Execute justice and righteousness, and deliver him who is robbed out of the hand of the oppressor. Do no wrong. Do no violence, to the foreigner, the fatherless, nor the widow; neither shed innocent blood in this place. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For if you do this thing indeed, then shall there enter in by the gates of this house kings sitting on David’s throne, riding in chariots and on horses, he, and his servants, and his people. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if you will not hear these words, I swear by myself,” says Yahweh, “that this house shall become a desolation.”’”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For Yahweh says concerning the house of the king of Judah:</p>

<p>“You are Gilead to me,</p>

<p>the head of Lebanon.</p>

<p>Yet surely I will make you a wilderness,</p>

<p>cities which are not inhabited.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will prepare destroyers against you,</p>

<p>everyone with his weapons,</p>

<p>and they will cut down your choice cedars,</p>

<p>and cast them into the fire.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Many nations will pass by this city, and they will each ask his neighbor, ‘Why has Yahweh done this to this great city?’ <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then they shall answer, ‘Because they abandoned the covenant of Yahweh their God, and worshiped other gods, and served them.’”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Don’t weep for the dead,</p>

<p>neither bemoan him;</p>

<p>but weep bitterly for him who goes away;</p>

<p>for he shall return no more,</p>

<p>nor see his native country.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For Yahweh says touching Shallum the son of Josiah, king of Judah, who reigned instead of Josiah his father, and who went out of this place: “He shall not return there any more. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But in the place where they have led him captive, there shall he die, and he shall see this land no more.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “Woe to him who builds his house by unrighteousness,</p>

<p>and his rooms by injustice;</p>

<p>who uses his neighbor’s service without wages,</p>

<p>and doesn’t give him his hire;</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> who says, ‘I will build me a wide house and spacious rooms,’</p>

<p>and cuts out windows for himself;</p>

<p>and it is ceiling with cedar,</p>

<p>and painted with vermilion.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “Shall you reign, because you strive to excel in cedar?</p>

<p>Didn’t your father eat and drink,</p>

<p>and do justice and righteousness?</p>

<p>Then it was well with him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He judged the cause of the poor and needy;</p>

<p>then it was well.</p>

<p>Wasn’t this to know me?”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But your eyes and your heart are not but for your covetousness,</p>

<p>and for shedding innocent blood,</p>

<p>for oppression, and for doing violence.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore Yahweh says concerning Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah:</p>

<p>“They shall not lament for him,</p>

<p>saying, ‘Ah my brother!’ or, ‘Ah sister!’</p>

<p>They shall not lament for him,</p>

<p>saying ‘Ah lord!’ or, ‘Ah his glory!’</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall be buried with the burial of a donkey,</p>

<p>drawn and cast out beyond the gates of Jerusalem.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “Go up to Lebanon, and cry;</p>

<p>and lift up your voice in Bashan,</p>

<p>and cry from Abarim;</p>

<p>for all your lovers are destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I spoke to you in your prosperity;</p>

<p>but you said, ‘I will not listen.’</p>

<p>This has been your way from your youth,</p>

<p>that you didn’t obey my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The wind shall feed all your shepherds,</p>

<p>and your lovers shall go into captivity.</p>

<p>Surely then you will be ashamed</p>

<p>and confounded for all your wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Inhabitant of Lebanon,</p>

<p>who makes your nest in the cedars,</p>

<p>how greatly to be pitied you will be when pangs come on you,</p>

<p>the pain as of a woman in travail!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “As I live,” says Yahweh, “though Coniah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah were the signet on my right hand, yet would I pluck you from there; <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and I would give you into the hand of those who seek your life, and into the hand of them of whom you are afraid, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of the Chaldeans. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I will cast you out with your mother who bore you, into another country, where you were not born; and there you will die. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But to the land to which their soul longs to return, there shall they not return.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Is this man Coniah a despised broken vessel?</p>

<p>Is he a vessel in which no one delights?</p>

<p>Why are they cast out, he and his offspring,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>and cast into a land which they don’t know?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> O earth, earth, earth,</p>

<p>hear Yahweh’s word!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Yahweh says,</p>

<p>“Record this man as childless,</p>

<p>a man who will not prosper in his days;</p>

<p>for no more shall a man of his offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> prosper,</p>

<p>sitting on David’s throne,</p>

<p>and ruling in Judah.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>