<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word which came to Jeremiah from Yahweh, when king Zedekiah sent to him Pashhur the son of Malchijah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, saying, <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Please inquire of Yahweh for us; for Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon makes war against us. Perhaps Yahweh will deal with us according to all his wondrous works, that he may withdraw from us.”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Jeremiah said to them, “Tell Zedekiah: <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> ‘Yahweh, the God of Israel says, “Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands, with which you fight against the king of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans who besiege you, without the walls; and I will gather them into the middle of this city. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and with a strong arm, even in anger, and in wrath, and in great indignation. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will strike the inhabitants of this city, both man and animal. They will die of a great pestilence. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Afterward,” says Yahweh, “I will deliver Zedekiah king of Judah, and his servants, and the people, even those who are left in this city from the pestilence, from the sword, and from the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those who seek their life. He will strike them with the edge of the sword. He will not spare them, neither have pity, nor have mercy.”’</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “To this people you shall say, ‘Yahweh says: “Behold, I set before you the way of life and the way of death. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He who remains in this city will die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence; but he who goes out, and passes over to the Chaldeans who besiege you, he shall live, and he will escape with his life. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For I have set my face on this city for evil, and not for good,” says Yahweh. “It will be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.”’</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Concerning the house of the king of Judah, hear Yahweh’s word. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> House of David, Yahweh says,</p>

<p>‘Execute justice in the morning,</p>

<p>and deliver him who is robbed out of the hand of the oppressor,</p>

<p>lest my wrath go out like fire,</p>

<p>and burn so that no one can quench it,</p>

<p>because of the evil of your doings.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, I am against you, O inhabitant of the valley,</p>

<p>and of the rock of the plain,’ says Yahweh.</p>

<p>‘You that say, “Who would come down against us?”</p>

<p>or “Who would enter into our homes?”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will punish you according to the fruit of your doings, says Yahweh;</p>

<p>and I will kindle a fire in her forest,</p>

<p>and it shall devour all that is around her.’”</p>

</body>
</html>