<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “If you will return, Israel,” says Yahweh, “if you will return to me, and if you will put away your abominations out of my sight; then you shall not be removed; <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and you shall swear, ‘As Yahweh lives,’ in truth, in justice, and in righteousness. The nations shall bless themselves in him, and in him shall they glory.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Yahweh says to the men of Judah and to Jerusalem, “Break up your fallow ground, and don’t sow among thorns. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Circumcise yourselves to Yahweh, and take away the foreskins of your heart, you men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem; lest my wrath go out like fire, and burn so that no one can quench it, because of the evil of your doings. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Declare in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem; and say, ‘Blow the trumpet in the land!’ Cry aloud and say, ‘Assemble yourselves! Let us go into the fortified cities!’ <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Set up a standard toward Zion. Flee for safety! Don’t wait; for I will bring evil from the north, and a great destruction.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A lion has gone up from his thicket, and a destroyer of nations; he is on his way, he has gone out from his place, to make your land desolate, that your cities be laid waste, without inhabitant. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For this clothe yourself with sackcloth, lament and wail; for the fierce anger of Yahweh hasn’t turned back from us. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “It shall happen at that day,” says Yahweh, “that the heart of the king shall perish, and the heart of the princes; and the priests shall be astonished, and the prophets shall wonder.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then I said, “Ah, Lord Yahweh! Surely you have greatly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, ‘You shall have peace;’ whereas the sword reaches to the heart.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> At that time it will be said to this people and to Jerusalem, “A hot wind from the bare heights in the wilderness toward the daughter of my people, not to winnow, nor to cleanse; <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> a full wind from these shall come for me. Now I will also utter judgments against them.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, he shall come up as clouds, and his chariots shall be as the whirlwind: his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe to us! For we are ruined. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jerusalem, wash your heart from wickedness, that you may be saved. How long shall your evil thoughts lodge within you? <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For a voice declares from Dan, and publishes evil from the hills of Ephraim: <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Tell the nations; behold, publish against Jerusalem, ‘Watchers come from a far country, and raise their voice against the cities of Judah. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> As keepers of a field, they are against her all around, because she has been rebellious against me,’” says Yahweh. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Your way and your doings have brought these things to you. This is your wickedness; for it is bitter, for it reaches to your heart.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My anguish, my anguish! I am pained at my very heart; my heart is disquieted in me; I can’t hold my peace; because you have heard, O my soul, the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Destruction on destruction is cried; for the whole land is laid waste: suddenly are my tents destroyed, and my curtains in a moment. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> How long shall I see the standard, and hear the sound of the trumpet?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “For my people are foolish, they don’t know me. They are foolish children, and they have no understanding. They are skillful in doing evil, but to do good they have no knowledge.” <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I saw the earth, and, behold, it was waste and void; and the heavens, and they had no light. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I saw the mountains, and behold, they trembled, and all the hills moved back and forth. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I saw, and behold, there was no man, and all the birds of the sky had fled. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I saw, and behold, the fruitful field was a wilderness, and all its cities were broken down at the presence of Yahweh, before his fierce anger. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For Yahweh says, “The whole land shall be a desolation; yet will I not make a full end. <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For this the earth will mourn, and the heavens above be black; because I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and I have not repented, neither will I turn back from it.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Every city flees for the noise of the horsemen and archers; they go into the thickets, and climb up on the rocks: every city is forsaken, and not a man dwells therein. <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> You, when you are made desolate, what will you do? Though you clothe yourself with scarlet, though you deck yourself with ornaments of gold, though you enlarge your eyes with makeup, you make yourself beautiful in vain. Your lovers despise you. They seek your life. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For I have heard a voice as of a woman in travail, the anguish as of her who gives birth to her first child, the voice of the daughter of Zion, who gasps for breath, who spreads her hands, saying, “Woe is me now! For my soul faints before the murderers.”</p>

</body>
</html>