<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “They say, ‘If a man puts away his wife, and she goes from him, and becomes another man’s, should he return to her again?’ Wouldn’t that land be greatly polluted? But you have played the prostitute with many lovers; yet return again to me,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Lift up your eyes to the bare heights, and see! Where have you not been lain with? You have sat waiting for them by the road, as an Arabian in the wilderness. You have polluted the land with your prostitution and with your wickedness. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore the showers have been withheld, and there has been no latter rain; yet you have a prostitute’s forehead. You refused to be ashamed. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will you not from this time cry to me, ‘My Father, you are the guide of my youth?’</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “‘Will he retain his anger forever? Will he keep it to the end?’ Behold, you have spoken and have done evil things, and have had your way.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Moreover, Yahweh said to me in the days of Josiah the king, “Have you seen that which backsliding Israel has done? She has gone up on every high mountain and under every green tree, and has played the prostitute there. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I said after she had done all these things, ‘She will return to me;’ but she didn’t return; and her treacherous sister Judah saw it. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I saw when, for this very cause, that backsliding Israel had committed adultery, I had put her away and given her a bill of divorce, yet treacherous Judah, her sister, had no fear; but she also went and played the prostitute. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because she took her prostitution lightly, the land was polluted, and she committed adultery with stones and with wood. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet for all this her treacherous sister, Judah, has not returned to me with her whole heart, but only in pretense,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh said to me, “Backsliding Israel has shown herself more righteous than treacherous Judah. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Go, and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, ‘Return, you backsliding Israel,’ says Yahweh; ‘I will not look in anger on you; for I am merciful,’ says Yahweh. ‘I will not keep anger forever. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Only acknowledge your iniquity, that you have transgressed against Yahweh your God, and have scattered your ways to the strangers under every green tree, and you have not obeyed my voice,’ says Yahweh.” <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Return, backsliding children,” says Yahweh; “for I am a husband to you. I will take one of you from a city, and two from a family, and I will bring you to Zion. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will give you shepherds according to my heart, who will feed you with knowledge and understanding. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It will come to pass, when you are multiplied and increased in the land, in those days,” says Yahweh, “they will no longer say, ‘the ark of Yahweh’s covenant!’ It will not come to mind. They won’t remember it. They won’t miss it, nor will another be made. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> At that time they will call Jerusalem ‘Yahweh’s Throne;’ and all the nations will be gathered to it, to Yahweh’s name, to Jerusalem. They will no longer walk after the stubbornness of their evil heart. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In those days the house of Judah will walk with the house of Israel, and they will come together out of the land of the north to the land that I gave for an inheritance to your fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “But I said, ‘How I desire to put you among the children, and give you a pleasant land, a goodly heritage of the armies of the nations!’ and I said, ‘You shall call me “My Father”, and shall not turn away from following me.’</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “Surely as a wife treacherously departs from her husband, so you have dealt treacherously with me, house of Israel,” says Yahweh. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A voice is heard on the bare heights, the weeping and the petitions of the children of Israel; because they have perverted their way, they have forgotten Yahweh their God. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Return, you backsliding children, and I will heal your backsliding.</p>

<p>“Behold, we have come to you; for you are Yahweh our God. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Truly in vain is help from the hills, the tumult on the mountains. Truly the salvation of Israel is in Yahweh our God. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But the shameful thing has devoured the labor of our fathers from our youth, their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let us lie down in our shame, and let our confusion cover us; for we have sinned against Yahweh our God, we and our fathers, from our youth even to this day. We have not obeyed Yahweh our God’s voice.”</p>

</body>
</html>