<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Pashhur, the son of Immer the priest, who was chief officer in Yahweh’s house, heard Jeremiah prophesying these things. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then Pashhur struck Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks that were in the upper gate of Benjamin, which was in Yahweh’s house. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> On the next day, Pashhur released Jeremiah out of the stocks. Then Jeremiah said to him, “Yahweh has not called your name Pashhur, but Magormissabib. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Yahweh says, ‘Behold, I will make you a terror to yourself, and to all your friends; and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and your eyes shall see it; and I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall carry them captive to Babylon, and shall kill them with the sword. <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Moreover I will give all the riches of this city, and all its gains, and all the precious things of it, yes, all the treasures of the kings of Judah will I give into the hand of their enemies; and they shall make them captives, and take them, and carry them to Babylon. <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You, Pashhur, and all who dwell in your house shall go into captivity; and you shall come to Babylon, and there you shall die, and there you shall be buried, you, and all your friends, to whom you have prophesied falsely.’”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh, you have persuaded me, and I was persuaded;</p>

<p>you are stronger than I, and have prevailed.</p>

<p>I have become a laughing-stock all day.</p>

<p>Every one mocks me.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For as often as I speak, I cry out;</p>

<p>I cry, Violence and destruction!</p>

<p>because Yahweh’s word has been made a reproach to me,</p>

<p>and a derision, all day.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If I say, I will not make mention of him,</p>

<p>nor speak any more in his name,</p>

<p>then there is in my heart as it were a burning fire shut up in my bones,</p>

<p>and I am weary with holding it in,</p>

<p>and I can’t.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For I have heard the defaming of many,</p>

<p>“Terror on every side!</p>

<p>Denounce, and we will denounce him!”</p>

<p>say all my familiar friends,</p>

<p>those who watch for my fall.</p>

<p>“Perhaps he will be persuaded,</p>

<p>and we shall prevail against him,</p>

<p>and we shall take our revenge on him.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But Yahweh is with me as an awesome mighty one.</p>

<p>Therefore my persecutors shall stumble,</p>

<p>and they shall not prevail.</p>

<p>They shall be utterly disappointed,</p>

<p>because they have not dealt wisely,</p>

<p>even with an everlasting dishonor which shall never be forgotten.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But, Yahweh of Armies, who tests the righteous,</p>

<p>who sees the heart and the mind,</p>

<p>let me see your vengeance on them;</p>

<p>for to you I have revealed my cause.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Sing to Yahweh,</p>

<p>praise Yahweh;</p>

<p>for he has delivered the soul of the needy from the hand of evildoers.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Cursed is the day in which I was born.</p>

<p>Don’t let the day in which my mother bore me be blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Cursed is the man who brought news to my father, saying,</p>

<p>“A boy is born to you,” making him very glad.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let that man be as the cities which Yahweh overthrew,</p>

<p>and didn’t repent.</p>

<p>Let him hear a cry in the morning,</p>

<p>and shouting at noontime;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> because he didn’t kill me from the womb;</p>

<p>and so my mother would have been my grave,</p>

<p>and her womb always great.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Why did I come out of the womb to see labor and sorrow,</p>

<p>that my days should be consumed with shame?</p>

</body>
</html>