<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am the man that has seen affliction</p>

<p>by the rod of his wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He has led me and caused me to walk in darkness,</p>

<p>and not in light.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely against me he turns his hand</p>

<p>again and again all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He has made my flesh and my skin old;</p>

<p>he has broken my bones.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He has built against me,</p>

<p>and surrounded me with gall and travail.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He has made me to dwell in dark places,</p>

<p>as those that have been long dead.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He has walled me about, that I can’t go out;</p>

<p>he has made my chain heavy.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yes, when I cry, and call for help,</p>

<p>he shuts out my prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He has walled up my ways with cut stone;</p>

<p>he has made my paths crooked.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He is to me as a bear lying in wait,</p>

<p>as a lion in secret places.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He has turned aside my ways,</p>

<p>and pulled me in pieces;</p>

<p>he has made me desolate.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He has bent his bow,</p>

<p>and set me as a mark for the arrow.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He has caused the shafts of his quiver to enter into my kidneys.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have become a derision to all my people,</p>

<p>and their song all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He has filled me with bitterness.</p>

<p>He has sated me with wormwood.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He has also broken my teeth with gravel stones;</p>

<p>he has covered me with ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You have removed my soul far off from peace;</p>

<p>I forgot prosperity.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I said, “My strength has perished,</p>

<p>along with my expectation from Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Remember my affliction and my misery,</p>

<p>the wormwood and the gall.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My soul still remembers them,</p>

<p>and is bowed down within me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> This I recall to my mind;</p>

<p>therefore I have hope.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It is because of Yahweh’s loving kindnesses that we are not consumed,</p>

<p>because his compassion doesn’t fail.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They are new every morning;</p>

<p>great is your faithfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “Yahweh is my portion,” says my soul.</p>

<p>“Therefore I will hope in him.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Yahweh is good to those who wait for him,</p>

<p>to the soul who seeks him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> It is good that a man should hope</p>

<p>and quietly wait for the salvation of Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Let him sit alone and keep silence,</p>

<p>because he has laid it on him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Let him put his mouth in the dust,</p>

<p>if so be there may be hope.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Let him give his cheek to him who strikes him;</p>

<p>let him be filled full with reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For the Lord will not cast off forever.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For though he cause grief,</p>

<p>yet he will have compassion according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For he does not afflict willingly,</p>

<p>nor grieve the children of men.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> To crush under foot all the prisoners of the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> To turn aside the right of a man before the face of the Most High,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> To subvert a man in his cause, the Lord doesn’t approve.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Who is he who says, and it comes to pass,</p>

<p>when the Lord doesn’t command it?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Doesn’t evil and good come out of the mouth of the Most High?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Why does a living man complain,</p>

<p>a man for the punishment of his sins?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Let us search and try our ways,</p>

<p>and turn again to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Let us lift up our heart with our hands to God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> in the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> “We have transgressed and have rebelled.</p>

<p>You have not pardoned.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> “You have covered us with anger and pursued us.</p>

<p>You have killed.</p>

<p>You have not pitied.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> You have covered yourself with a cloud,</p>

<p>so that no prayer can pass through.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> You have made us an off-scouring and refuse</p>

<p>in the middle of the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> “All our enemies have opened their mouth wide against us.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Terror and the pit have come on us,</p>

<p>devastation and destruction.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> My eye runs down with streams of water,</p>

<p>for the destruction of the daughter of my people.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> My eye pours down,</p>

<p>and doesn’t cease,</p>

<p>without any intermission,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> until Yahweh looks down,</p>

<p>and sees from heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> My eye affects my soul,</p>

<p>because of all the daughters of my city.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> They have chased me relentlessly like a bird,</p>

<p>those who are my enemies without cause.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> They have cut off my life in the dungeon,</p>

<p>and have cast a stone on me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Waters flowed over my head;</p>

<p>I said, I am cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> I called on your name, Yahweh,</p>

<p>out of the lowest dungeon.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> You heard my voice:</p>

<p>“Don’t hide your ear from my sighing,</p>

<p>and my cry.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> You came near in the day that I called on you;</p>

<p>you said, “Don’t be afraid.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Lord, you have pleaded the causes of my soul;</p>

<p>you have redeemed my life.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> Yahweh, you have seen my wrong.</p>

<p>Judge my cause.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> You have seen all their vengeance</p>

<p>and all their devices against me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> You have heard their reproach, Yahweh,</p>

<p>and all their devices against me,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> The lips of those that rose up against me,</p>

<p>and their device against me all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> You see their sitting down and their rising up;</p>

<p>I am their song.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> You will render to them a recompense, Yahweh,</p>

<p>according to the work of their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> You will give them hardness of heart,</p>

<p>your curse to them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> You will pursue them in anger,</p>

<p>and destroy them from under the heavens of Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>