<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> How has the Lord covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger!</p>

<p>He has cast down from heaven to the earth the beauty of Israel,</p>

<p>And hasn’t remembered his footstool in the day of his anger.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The Lord has swallowed up all the habitations of Jacob,</p>

<p>and has not pitied:</p>

<p>He has thrown down in his wrath the strongholds of the daughter of Judah;</p>

<p>He has brought them down to the ground;</p>

<p>he has profaned the kingdom and its princes.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He has cut off in fierce anger all the horn of Israel;</p>

<p>He has drawn back his right hand from before the enemy:</p>

<p>He has burned up Jacob like a flaming fire,</p>

<p>which devours all around.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He has bent his bow like an enemy,</p>

<p>he has stood with his right hand as an adversary,</p>

<p>Has killed all that were pleasant to the eye:</p>

<p>In the tent of the daughter of Zion he has poured out his wrath like fire.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The Lord has become as an enemy,</p>

<p>he has swallowed up Israel;</p>

<p>He has swallowed up all her palaces,</p>

<p>he has destroyed his strongholds;</p>

<p>He has multiplied in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He has violently taken away his tabernacle,</p>

<p>as if it were of a garden;</p>

<p>he has destroyed his place of assembly:</p>

<p>Yahweh has caused solemn assembly and Sabbath to be forgotten in Zion,</p>

<p>Has despised in the indignation of his anger the king and the priest.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The Lord has cast off his altar,</p>

<p>he has abhorred his sanctuary;</p>

<p>He has given up into the hand of the enemy the walls of her palaces:</p>

<p>They have made a noise in Yahweh’s house,</p>

<p>as in the day of a solemn assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh has purposed to destroy the wall of the daughter of Zion;</p>

<p>He has stretched out the line,</p>

<p>he has not withdrawn his hand from destroying;</p>

<p>He has made the rampart and wall to lament;</p>

<p>they languish together.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Her gates are sunk into the ground;</p>

<p>he has destroyed and broken her bars:</p>

<p>Her king and her princes are among the nations where the law is not;</p>

<p>Yes, her prophets find no vision from Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The elders of the daughter of Zion sit on the ground,</p>

<p>they keep silence;</p>

<p>They have cast up dust on their heads;</p>

<p>they have clothed themselves with sackcloth:</p>

<p>The virgins of Jerusalem hang down their heads to the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My eyes fail with tears,</p>

<p>my heart is troubled;</p>

<p>My liver is poured on the earth,</p>

<p>because of the destruction of the daughter of my people,</p>

<p>Because the young children and the infants swoon in the streets of the city.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They ask their mothers,</p>

<p>“Where is grain and wine?”</p>

<p>when they swoon as the wounded in the streets of the city,</p>

<p>when their soul is poured out into their mothers’ bosom.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> What shall I testify to you?</p>

<p>what shall I liken to you, daughter of Jerusalem?</p>

<p>What shall I compare to you,</p>

<p>that I may comfort you, virgin daughter of Zion?</p>

<p>For your breach is great like the sea:</p>

<p>who can heal you?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Your prophets have seen for you false and foolish visions;</p>

<p>They have not uncovered your iniquity,</p>

<p>to bring back your captivity,</p>

<p>but have seen for you false revelations and causes of banishment.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All that pass by clap their hands at you.</p>

<p>They hiss and wag their head at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying,</p>

<p>“Is this the city that men called ‘The perfection of beauty,</p>

<p>the joy of the whole earth’?”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All your enemies have opened their mouth wide against you.</p>

<p>They hiss and gnash the teeth.</p>

<p>They say, “We have swallowed her up.</p>

<p>Certainly this is the day that we looked for.</p>

<p>We have found it.</p>

<p>We have seen it.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yahweh has done that which he purposed;</p>

<p>he has fulfilled his word that he commanded in the days of old;</p>

<p>He has thrown down,</p>

<p>and has not pitied:</p>

<p>He has caused the enemy to rejoice over you;</p>

<p>he has exalted the horn of your adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their heart cried to the Lord:</p>

<p>wall of the daughter of Zion,</p>

<p>let tears run down like a river day and night;</p>

<p>Give yourself no respite;</p>

<p>don’t let the apple of your eye cease.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Arise, cry out in the night,</p>

<p>at the beginning of the watches;</p>

<p>Pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord:</p>

<p>Lift up your hands toward him for the life of your young children,</p>

<p>that faint for hunger at the head of every street.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “Look, Yahweh, and see to whom you have done thus!</p>

<p>Shall the women eat their offspring,</p>

<p>the children that are dandled in the hands?</p>

<p>Shall the priest and the prophet be killed in the sanctuary of the Lord?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “The youth and the old man lie on the ground in the streets.</p>

<p>My virgins and my young men have fallen by the sword.</p>

<p>You have killed them in the day of your anger.</p>

<p>You have slaughtered, and not pitied.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “You have called, as in the day of a solemn assembly, my terrors on every side.</p>

<p>There was no one that escaped or remained in the day of Yahweh’s anger.</p>

<p>My enemy has consumed those whom I have dandled and brought up.</p>

</body>
</html>