<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> How the gold has become dim!</p>

<p>The most pure gold has changed!</p>

<p>The stones of the sanctuary are poured out</p>

<p>at the head of every street.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The precious sons of Zion,</p>

<p>comparable to fine gold,</p>

<p>How are they esteemed as earthen pitchers,</p>

<p>the work of the hands of the potter!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Even the jackals draw out the breast,</p>

<p>they nurse their young ones:</p>

<p>But the daughter of my people has become cruel,</p>

<p>like the ostriches in the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The tongue of the nursing child clings to the roof of his mouth for thirst:</p>

<p>The young children ask bread,</p>

<p>and no man breaks it to them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Those who fed delicately are desolate in the streets:</p>

<p>Those who were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the sin of Sodom,</p>

<p>That was overthrown as in a moment,</p>

<p>and no hands were laid on her.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Her nobles were purer than snow,</p>

<p>they were whiter than milk;</p>

<p>They were more ruddy in body than rubies,</p>

<p>their polishing was as of sapphire.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their appearance is blacker than a coal;</p>

<p>they are not known in the streets:</p>

<p>Their skin clings to their bones;</p>

<p>it is withered,</p>

<p>it has become like a stick.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Those who are killed with the sword are better than those who are killed with hunger;</p>

<p>For these pine away, stricken through,</p>

<p>for want of the fruits of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The hands of the pitiful women have boiled their own children;</p>

<p>They were their food in the destruction of the daughter of my people.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh has accomplished his wrath,</p>

<p>he has poured out his fierce anger;</p>

<p>He has kindled a fire in Zion,</p>

<p>which has devoured its foundations.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The kings of the earth didn’t believe,</p>

<p>neither did all the inhabitants of the world,</p>

<p>That the adversary and the enemy would enter into the gates of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> It is because of the sins of her prophets,</p>

<p>and the iniquities of her priests,</p>

<p>That have shed the blood of the just in the middle of her.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They wander as blind men in the streets.</p>

<p>They are polluted with blood,</p>

<p>So that men can’t touch their garments.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “Go away!” they cried to them,</p>

<p>“Unclean! Go away! Go away! Don’t touch!</p>

<p>When they fled away and wandered, men said among the nations,</p>

<p>“They can’t live here any more.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh’s anger has scattered them;</p>

<p>he will no more regard them:</p>

<p>They didn’t respect the persons of the priests,</p>

<p>they didn’t favor the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Our eyes still fail,</p>

<p>looking in vain for our help:</p>

<p>In our watching we have watched for a nation that could not save.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They hunt our steps,</p>

<p>so that we can’t go in our streets:</p>

<p>Our end is near,</p>

<p>our days are fulfilled;</p>

<p>for our end has come.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the sky:</p>

<p>They chased us on the mountains,</p>

<p>they laid wait for us in the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The breath of our nostrils,</p>

<p>the anointed of Yahweh,</p>

<p>was taken in their pits;</p>

<p>Of whom we said,</p>

<p>Under his shadow we shall live among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Rejoice and be glad, daughter of Edom,</p>

<p>that dwell in the land of Uz:</p>

<p>The cup shall pass through to you also;</p>

<p>you shall be drunken,</p>

<p>and shall make yourself naked.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The punishment of your iniquity is accomplished, daughter of Zion;</p>

<p>he will no more carry you away into captivity:</p>

<p>He will visit your iniquity, daughter of Edom;</p>

<p>he will uncover your sins.</p>

</body>
</html>