<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Remember, Yahweh, what has come on us:</p>

<p>Look, and see our reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Our inheritance is turned to strangers,</p>

<p>Our houses to aliens.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> We are orphans and fatherless;</p>

<p>Our mothers are as widows.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We have drunken our water for money;</p>

<p>Our wood is sold to us.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Our pursuers are on our necks:</p>

<p>We are weary, and have no rest.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have given the hand to the Egyptians,</p>

<p>To the Assyrians, to be satisfied with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our fathers sinned, and are no more;</p>

<p>We have borne their iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Servants rule over us:</p>

<p>There is no one to deliver us out of their hand.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We get our bread at the peril of our lives,</p>

<p>Because of the sword of the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Our skin is black like an oven,</p>

<p>Because of the burning heat of famine.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They ravished the women in Zion,</p>

<p>The virgins in the cities of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Princes were hanged up by their hand:</p>

<p>The faces of elders were not honored.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The young men bare the mill;</p>

<p>The children stumbled under the wood.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The elders have ceased from the gate,</p>

<p>The young men from their music.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The joy of our heart is ceased;</p>

<p>Our dance is turned into mourning.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The crown is fallen from our head:</p>

<p>Woe to us! for we have sinned.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For this our heart is faint;</p>

<p>For these things our eyes are dim;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the mountain of Zion, which is desolate:</p>

<p>The foxes walk on it.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You, Yahweh, remain forever;</p>

<p>Your throne is from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Why do you forget us forever,</p>

<p>And forsake us so long time?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Turn us to yourself, Yahweh, and we shall be turned.</p>

<p>Renew our days as of old.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But you have utterly rejected us;</p>

<p>You are very angry against us.</p>

</body>
</html>