<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> How the city sits solitary,</p>

<p>that was full of people!</p>

<p>She has become as a widow,</p>

<p>who was great among the nations!</p>

<p>She who was a princess among the provinces</p>

<p>has become tributary!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> She weeps bitterly in the night,</p>

<p>and her tears are on her cheeks;</p>

<p>among all her lovers</p>

<p>she has no one to comfort her:</p>

<p>All her friends have dealt treacherously with her;</p>

<p>they have become her enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Judah has gone into captivity because of affliction,</p>

<p>and because of great servitude;</p>

<p>she dwells among the nations,</p>

<p>she finds no rest:</p>

<p>all her persecutors overtook her within the straits.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The ways of Zion mourn,</p>

<p>because no one come to the solemn assembly;</p>

<p>all her gates are desolate,</p>

<p>her priests sigh:</p>

<p>her virgins are afflicted,</p>

<p>and she herself is in bitterness.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Her adversaries have become the head,</p>

<p>her enemies prosper;</p>

<p>for Yahweh<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> has afflicted her for the multitude of her transgressions:</p>

<p>her young children have gone into captivity before the adversary.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All majesty has departed from the daughter of Zion:</p>

<p>her princes have become like deer that find no pasture,</p>

<p>they have gone without strength before the pursuer.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jerusalem remembers in the days of her affliction and of her miseries</p>

<p>all her pleasant things that were from the days of old:</p>

<p>when her people fell into the hand of the adversary,</p>

<p>and no one helped her,</p>

<p>The adversaries saw her,</p>

<p>they mocked at her desolations.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jerusalem has grievously sinned;</p>

<p>therefore she has become as an unclean thing;</p>

<p>all who honored her despise her,</p>

<p>because they have seen her nakedness:</p>

<p>yes, she sighs, and turns backward.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Her filthiness was in her skirts;</p>

<p>she didn’t remember her latter end;</p>

<p>therefore she has come down astoundingly;</p>

<p>she has no comforter:</p>

<p>“See, Yahweh, my affliction;</p>

<p>for the enemy has magnified himself.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The adversary has spread out his hand on all her pleasant things:</p>

<p>for she has seen that the nations are entered into her sanctuary,</p>

<p>concerning whom you commanded that they should not enter into your assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All her people sigh, they seek bread;</p>

<p>they have given their pleasant things for food to refresh the soul:</p>

<p>“Look, Yahweh, and see;</p>

<p>for I have become abject.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by?</p>

<p>Look, and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow,</p>

<p>which is brought on me,</p>

<p>with which Yahweh has afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “From on high has he sent fire into my bones,</p>

<p>and it prevails against them;</p>

<p>He has spread a net for my feet.</p>

<p>He has turned me back.</p>

<p>He has made me desolate and faint all day long.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “The yoke of my transgressions is bound by his hand;</p>

<p>They are knit together.</p>

<p>They have come up on my neck.</p>

<p>He has made my strength to fail.</p>

<p>The Lord<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> has delivered me into their hands,</p>

<p>against whom I am not able to stand.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “The Lord has set at nothing all my mighty men within me.</p>

<p>He has called a solemn assembly against me to crush my young men.</p>

<p>The Lord has trodden as in a wine press the virgin daughter of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “For these things I weep.</p>

<p>My eye, my eye runs down with water,</p>

<p>because the comforter who should refresh my soul is far from me.</p>

<p>My children are desolate,</p>

<p>because the enemy has prevailed.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Zion spreads out her hands.</p>

<p>There is no one to comfort her;</p>

<p>Yahweh has commanded concerning Jacob,</p>

<p>that those who are around him should be his adversaries.</p>

<p>Jerusalem is among them as an unclean thing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Yahweh is righteous;</p>

<p>for I have rebelled against his commandment.</p>

<p>Please hear all you peoples,</p>

<p>and see my sorrow.</p>

<p>My virgins and my young men have gone into captivity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “I called for my lovers,</p>

<p>but they deceived me.</p>

<p>My priests and my elders gave up the spirit in the city,</p>

<p>while they sought food for themselves to refresh their souls.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “See, Yahweh; for I am in distress.</p>

<p>My heart is troubled.</p>

<p>My heart is turned within me,</p>

<p>for I have grievously rebelled.</p>

<p>Abroad the sword bereaves.</p>

<p>At home it is like death.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “They have heard that I sigh.</p>

<p>There is no one to comfort me.</p>

<p>All my enemies have heard of my trouble.</p>

<p>They are glad that you have done it:</p>

<p>You will bring the day that you have proclaimed,</p>

<p>and they will be like me.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “Let all their wickedness come before you;</p>

<p>Do to them as you have done to me for all my transgressions.</p>

<p>For my sighs are many,</p>

<p>and my heart is faint.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>