<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s word came to me again, saying, <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “What do you mean, that you use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying,</p>

<p>‘The fathers have eaten sour grapes,</p>

<p>and the children’s teeth are set on edge’?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “As I live,” says the Lord Yahweh, “you shall not use this proverb any more in Israel. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is mine: the soul who sins, he shall die.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “But if a man is just,</p>

<p>and does that which is lawful and right,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and has not eaten on the mountains,</p>

<p>neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel,</p>

<p>neither has defiled his neighbor’s wife,</p>

<p>neither has come near to a woman in her impurity,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and has not wronged any,</p>

<p>but has restored to the debtor his pledge,</p>

<p>has taken nothing by robbery,</p>

<p>has given his bread to the hungry,</p>

<p>and has covered the naked with a garment;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> he who has not lent on interest,</p>

<p>neither has taken any increase,</p>

<p>who has withdrawn his hand from iniquity,</p>

<p>has executed true justice between man and man,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> has walked in my statutes,</p>

<p>and has kept my ordinances,</p>

<p>to deal truly;</p>

<p>he is just,</p>

<p>he shall surely live,” says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “If he fathers a son who is a robber who sheds blood, and who does any one of these things, <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> or who does not do any of those things,</p>

<p>but even has eaten at the mountain shrines,</p>

<p>and defiled his neighbor’s wife,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> has wronged the poor and needy,</p>

<p>has taken by robbery,</p>

<p>has not restored the pledge,</p>

<p>and has lifted up his eyes to the idols,</p>

<p>has committed abomination,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> has lent on interest,</p>

<p>and has taken increase;</p>

<p>shall he then live? He shall not live. He has done all these abominations. He shall surely die. His blood shall be on him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Now, behold, if he fathers a son, who sees all his father’s sins, which he has done, and fears, and does not such like;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> who has not eaten on the mountains,</p>

<p>neither has lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel,</p>

<p>has not defiled his neighbor’s wife,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> neither has wronged any,</p>

<p>has not taken anything to pledge,</p>

<p>neither has taken by robbery,</p>

<p>but has given his bread to the hungry,</p>

<p>and has covered the naked with a garment;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> who has withdrawn his hand from the poor,</p>

<p>who has not received interest nor increase,</p>

<p>has executed my ordinances,</p>

<p>has walked in my statutes;</p>

<p>he shall not die for the iniquity of his father, he shall surely live. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, robbed his brother, and did that which is not good among his people, behold, he shall die in his iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “Yet you say, ‘Why doesn’t the son bear the iniquity of the father?’ When the son has done that which is lawful and right, and has kept all my statutes, and has done them, he shall surely live. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The soul who sins, he shall die. The son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of the son. The righteousness of the righteous shall be on him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be on him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “But if the wicked turns from all his sins that he has committed, and keeps all my statutes, and does that which is lawful and right, he shall surely live. He shall not die. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> None of his transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him. In his righteousness that he has done, he shall live. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked?” says the Lord Yahweh; “and not rather that he should return from his way, and live?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “But when the righteous turns away from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, and does according to all the abominations that the wicked man does, shall he live? None of his righteous deeds that he has done shall be remembered. In his trespass that he has trespassed, and in his sin that he has sinned, in them he shall die.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “Yet you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not equal.’ Hear now, house of Israel: Is my way not equal? Aren’t your ways unequal? <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When the righteous man turns away from his righteousness, and commits iniquity, and dies therein; in his iniquity that he has done shall he die. <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Again, when the wicked man turns away from his wickedness that he has committed, and does that which is lawful and right, he shall save his soul alive. <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Because he considers, and turns away from all his transgressions that he has committed, he shall surely live. He shall not die. <a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Yet the house of Israel says, ‘The way of the Lord is not fair.’ House of Israel, aren’t my ways fair? Aren’t your ways unfair?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “Therefore I will judge you, house of Israel, everyone according to his ways,” says the Lord Yahweh. “Return, and turn yourselves from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin. <a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Cast away from you all your transgressions, in which you have transgressed; and make yourself a new heart and a new spirit: for why will you die, house of Israel? <a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For I have no pleasure in the death of him who dies,” says the Lord Yahweh. “Therefore turn yourselves, and live!</p>

</body>
</html>