<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 45</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 45</h2>

<p><a id="c45_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover, when you shall divide by lot the land for inheritance, you shall offer an offering to Yahweh, a holy portion of the land; the length shall be the length of twenty-five thousand reeds, and the width shall be ten thousand: it shall be holy in all its border all around. <a id="c45_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Of this there shall be a five hundred by five hundred square for the holy place; and fifty cubits<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> for its suburbs all around. <a id="c45_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Of this measure you shall measure a length of twenty-five thousand, and a width of ten thousand: and in it shall be the sanctuary, which is most holy. <a id="c45_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> It is a holy portion of the land; it shall be for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come near to minister to Yahweh; and it shall be a place for their houses, and a holy place for the sanctuary. <a id="c45_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Twenty-five thousand in length, and ten thousand in width, shall be to the Levites, the ministers of the house, for a possession to themselves, for twenty rooms.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You shall appoint the possession of the city five thousand wide, and twenty-five thousand long, side by side with the offering of the holy portion: it shall be for the whole house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What is for the prince shall be on the one side and on the other side of the holy offering and of the possession of the city, in front of the holy offering and in front of the possession of the city, on the west side westward, and on the east side eastward; and in length answerable to one of the portions, from the west border to the east border. <a id="c45_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In the land it shall be to him for a possession in Israel: and my princes shall no more oppress my people; but they shall give the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Let it suffice you, princes of Israel: remove violence and plunder, and execute justice and righteousness; dispossessing my people, says the Lord Yahweh. <a id="c45_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You shall have just balances, and a just ephah,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and a just bath. <a id="c45_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath may contain one tenth of a homer,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and the ephah one tenth of a homer: its measure shall be after the homer. <a id="c45_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The shekel<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> shall be twenty gerahs.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> Twenty shekels plus twenty-five shekels plus fifteen shekels shall be your mina.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c45_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the offering that you shall offer: the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of wheat; and you shall give the sixth part of an ephah from a homer of barley; <a id="c45_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the set portion of oil, of the bath of oil, one tenth of a bath out of the cor, which is ten baths, even a homer; (for ten baths are a homer;)<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a>  <a id="c45_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and one lamb of the flock, out of two hundred, from the well-watered pastures of Israel—for a meal offering, and for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings, to make atonement for them, says the Lord Yahweh. <a id="c45_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All the people of the land shall give to this offering for the prince in Israel. <a id="c45_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It shall be the prince’s part to give the burnt offerings, and the meal offerings, and the drink offerings, in the feasts, and on the new moons, and on the Sabbaths, in all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel: he shall prepare the sin offering, and the meal offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offerings, to make atonement for the house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: In the first month, in the first day of the month, you shall take a young bull without defect; and you shall cleanse the sanctuary. <a id="c45_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering, and put it on the door posts of the house, and on the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and on the posts of the gate of the inner court. <a id="c45_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So you shall do on the seventh day of the month for everyone who errs, and for him who is simple: so you shall make atonement for the house.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten. <a id="c45_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> On that day shall the prince prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bull for a sin offering. <a id="c45_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt offering to Yahweh, seven bulls and seven rams without defect daily the seven days; and a male goat daily for a sin offering. <a id="c45_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He shall prepare a meal offering, an ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> for a bull, and an ephah for a ram, and a hin of oil to an ephah.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, in the feast, shall he do the like the seven days; according to the sin offering, according to the burnt offering, and according to the meal offering, and according to the oil.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>1 homer is about 220 liters or 6 bushels</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>a gerah is about 0.5 grams or about 7.7 grains</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>A mina is about 600 grams or 1.3 U. S. pounds.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p>1 cor is the same as 1 homer in volume, and is about 211 liters, 55.9 gallons, or 6 bushels 1 bath is about 21.1 liters, 5.59 gallons, or 2.4 pecks.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>