<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s word came again to me, saying, <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You, son of man, take up a lamentation over Tyre; <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and tell Tyre, you who dwell at the entry of the sea, who are the merchant of the peoples to many islands, thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>You, Tyre, have said,</p>

<p>I am perfect in beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Your borders are in the heart of the seas;</p>

<p>your builders have perfected your beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have made all your planks of cypress trees from Senir;</p>

<p>they have taken a cedar from Lebanon to make a mast for you.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Of the oaks of Bashan have they made your oars;</p>

<p>they have made your benches of ivory inlaid in boxwood,</p>

<p>from the islands of Kittim.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your sail was of fine linen with embroidered work from Egypt,</p>

<p>that it might be to you for a banner;</p>

<p>blue and purple from the islands of Elishah was your awning.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The inhabitants of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers:</p>

<p>your wise men, Tyre, were in you,</p>

<p>they were your pilots.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The old men of Gebal</p>

<p>and its wise men were your repairers of ship seams in you:</p>

<p>all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in you</p>

<p>to deal in your merchandise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Persia and Lud and Put were in your army,</p>

<p>your men of war:</p>

<p>they hanged the shield and helmet in you;</p>

<p>they showed your beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The men of Arvad with your army were on your walls all around,</p>

<p>and valorous men were in your towers;</p>

<p>they hung their shields on your walls all around;</p>

<p>they have perfected your beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Tarshish was your merchant by reason of the multitude of all kinds of riches; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they traded for your wares.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were your traffickers; they traded the persons of men and vessels of brass for your merchandise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They of the house of Togarmah traded for your wares with horses and war horses and mules.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The men of Dedan were your traffickers; many islands were the market of your hand: they brought you in exchange horns of ivory and ebony.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Syria was your merchant by reason of the multitude of your handiworks: they traded for your wares with emeralds, purple, and embroidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and rubies.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Judah, and the land of Israel, they were your traffickers: they traded for your merchandise wheat of Minnith, and confections, and honey, and oil, and balm.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Damascus was your merchant for the multitude of your handiworks, by reason of the multitude of all kinds of riches, with the wine of Helbon, and white wool.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Vedan and Javan traded with yarn for your wares: bright iron, cassia, and calamus, were among your merchandise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Dedan was your trafficker in precious cloths for riding.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar, they were the merchants of your hand; in lambs, and rams, and goats, in these were they your merchants.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The traffickers of Sheba and Raamah, they were your traffickers; they traded for your wares with the chief of all spices, and with all precious stones, and gold.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Haran and Canneh and Eden, the traffickers of Sheba, Asshur and Chilmad, were your traffickers. <a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> These were your traffickers in choice wares, in wrappings of blue and embroidered work, and in chests of rich clothing, bound with cords and made of cedar, among your merchandise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The ships of Tarshish were your caravans for your merchandise:</p>

<p>and you were replenished,</p>

<p>and made very glorious in the heart of the seas.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Your rowers have brought you into great waters:</p>

<p>the east wind has broken you in the heart of the seas.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Your riches,</p>

<p>and your wares,</p>

<p>your merchandise,</p>

<p>your mariners,</p>

<p>and your pilots,</p>

<p>your repairers of ship seams,</p>

<p>and the dealers in your merchandise,</p>

<p>and all your men of war, who are in you,</p>

<p>with all your company which is among you,</p>

<p>shall fall into the heart of the seas in the day of your ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> At the sound of the cry of your pilots</p>

<p>the suburbs shall shake.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> All who handled the oar,</p>

<p>the mariners,</p>

<p>and all the pilots of the sea,</p>

<p>shall come down from their ships;</p>

<p>they shall stand on the land,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and shall cause their voice to be heard over you,</p>

<p>and shall cry bitterly,</p>

<p>and shall cast up dust on their heads,</p>

<p>they shall wallow themselves in the ashes:</p>

<p><a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and they shall make themselves bald for you,</p>

<p>and clothe them with sackcloth,</p>

<p>and they shall weep for you in bitterness of soul</p>

<p>with bitter mourning.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> In their wailing they shall take up a lamentation for you,</p>

<p>and lament over you, saying,</p>

<p>Who is there like Tyre,</p>

<p>like her who is brought to silence in the middle of the sea?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When your wares went out of the seas,</p>

<p>you filled many peoples;</p>

<p>you enriched the kings of the earth</p>

<p>with the multitude of your riches and of your merchandise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> In the time that you were broken by the seas</p>

<p>in the depths of the waters,</p>

<p>your merchandise</p>

<p>and all your company fell within you.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> All the inhabitants of the islands are astonished at you,</p>

<p>and their kings are horribly afraid;</p>

<p>they are troubled in their face.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The merchants among the peoples hiss at you;</p>

<p>you have become a terror,</p>

<p>and you will be no more.</p>

</body>
</html>