<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the seventh year, in the fifth month, the tenth day of the month, some of the elders of Israel came to inquire of Yahweh, and sat before me.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Son of man, speak to the elders of Israel, and tell them, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Is it to inquire of me that you have come? As I live,” says the Lord Yahweh, “I will not be inquired of by you.”’</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Will you judge them, son of man, will you judge them? Cause them to know the abominations of their fathers; <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and tell them, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh: “In the day when I chose Israel, and swore to the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the house of Jacob, and made myself known to them in the land of Egypt, when I swore to them, saying, ‘I am Yahweh your God;’ <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> in that day I swore to them, to bring them out of the land of Egypt into a land that I had searched out for them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands. <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I said to them, ‘Each of you throw away the abominations of his eyes, and don’t defile yourselves with the idols of Egypt. I am Yahweh your God.’</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “‘“But they rebelled against me, and would not listen to me. They didn’t all throw away the abominations of their eyes, neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt. Then I said I would pour out my wrath on them, to accomplish my anger against them in the middle of the land of Egypt. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But I worked for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, among which they were, in whose sight I made myself known to them, in bringing them out of the land of Egypt. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So I caused them to go out of the land of Egypt, and brought them into the wilderness. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I gave them my statutes, and showed them my ordinances, which if a man does, he shall live in them. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Moreover also I gave them my Sabbaths, to be a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am Yahweh who sanctifies them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “‘“But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness. They didn’t walk in my statutes, and they rejected my ordinances, which if a man keeps, he shall live in them. They greatly profaned my Sabbaths. Then I said I would pour out my wrath on them in the wilderness, to consume them. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I worked for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I brought them out. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Moreover also I swore to them in the wilderness, that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands; <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> because they rejected my ordinances, and didn’t walk in my statutes, and profaned my Sabbaths; for their heart went after their idols. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Nevertheless my eye spared them, and I didn’t destroy them, neither did I make a full end of them in the wilderness. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I said to their children in the wilderness, ‘Don’t walk in the statutes of your fathers, neither observe their ordinances, nor defile yourselves with their idols. <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I am Yahweh your God. Walk in my statutes, and keep my ordinances, and do them; <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and make my Sabbaths holy; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I am Yahweh your God. ’</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “‘“But the children rebelled against me. They didn’t walk in my statutes, neither kept my ordinances to do them, which if a man do, he shall live in them. They profaned my Sabbaths. Then I said I would pour out my wrath on them, to accomplish my anger against them in the wilderness. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Nevertheless I withdrew my hand, and worked for my name’s sake, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I brought them out. <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Moreover I swore to them in the wilderness, that I would scatter them among the nations, and disperse them through the countries; <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> because they had not executed my ordinances, but had rejected my statutes, and had profaned my Sabbaths, and their eyes were after their fathers’ idols. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Moreover also I gave them statutes that were not good, and ordinances in which they should not live; <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and I polluted them in their own gifts, in that they caused all that opens the womb to pass through the fire, that I might make them desolate, to the end that they might know that I am Yahweh.”’</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “Therefore, son of man, speak to the house of Israel, and tell them, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh: “In this moreover your fathers have blasphemed me, in that they have committed a trespass against me. <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For when I had brought them into the land, which I swore to give to them, then they saw every high hill, and every thick tree, and they offered there their sacrifices, and there they presented the provocation of their offering; there also they made their pleasant aroma, and they poured out there their drink offerings. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then I said to them, ‘What does the high place where you go mean?’ So its name is called Bamah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> to this day. ”’</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “Therefore tell the house of Israel, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Do you pollute yourselves in the way of your fathers? Do you play the prostitute after their abominations? <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> When you offer your gifts, when you make your sons to pass through the fire, do you pollute yourselves with all your idols to this day? Shall I be inquired of by you, house of Israel? As I live, says the Lord Yahweh, I will not be inquired of by you!</p>

<p><a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> “‘“That which comes into your mind shall not be at all, in that you say, ‘We will be as the nations, as the families of the countries, to serve wood and stone.’ <a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> As I live, says the Lord Yahweh, surely with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out, I will be king over you. <a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I will bring you out from the peoples, and will gather you out of the countries in which you are scattered, with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out. <a id="c20_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I will bring you into the wilderness of the peoples, and there I will enter into judgment with you face to face. <a id="c20_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Like as I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I enter into judgment with you,” says the Lord Yahweh. <a id="c20_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> “I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant. <a id="c20_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I will purge out from among you the rebels, and those who disobey against me. I will bring them out of the land where they live, but they shall not enter into the land of Israel; and you shall know that I am Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> “‘As for you, house of Israel, thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Go, everyone serve his idols, and hereafter also, if you will not listen to me; but you shall no more profane my holy name with your gifts, and with your idols. <a id="c20_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For in my holy mountain, in the mountain of the height of Israel,” says the Lord Yahweh, “there shall all the house of Israel, all of them, serve me in the land. There I will accept them, and there I will require your offerings and the first fruits of your offerings, with all your holy things. <a id="c20_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> As a pleasant aroma I will accept you, when I bring you out from the peoples, and gather you out of the countries in which you have been scattered; and I will be sanctified in you in the sight of the nations. <a id="c20_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> You shall know that I am Yahweh, when I bring you into the land of Israel, into the country which I swore to give to your fathers. <a id="c20_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> There you shall remember your ways, and all your doings, in which you have polluted yourselves; and you shall loathe yourselves in your own sight for all your evils that you have committed. <a id="c20_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> You shall know that I am Yahweh, when I have dealt with you for my name’s sake, not according to your evil ways, nor according to your corrupt doings, you house of Israel,” says the Lord Yahweh.’”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c20_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> “Son of man, set your face toward the south, and preach toward the south, and prophesy against the forest of the field in the South; <a id="c20_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and tell the forest of the South, ‘Hear Yahweh’s word: Thus says the Lord Yahweh, “Behold, I will kindle a fire in you, and it shall devour every green tree in you, and every dry tree: the flaming flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall be burned thereby. <a id="c20_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> All flesh shall see that I, Yahweh, have kindled it; it shall not be quenched.”’”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Then I said, “Ah Lord Yahweh! they say of me, ‘Isn’t he a speaker of parables?’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Bamah” means “High Place”.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>