<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Son of man, set your face toward Jerusalem, and preach toward the sanctuaries, and prophesy against the land of Israel. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Tell the land of Israel, ‘Yahweh says: “Behold, I am against you, and will draw my sword out of its sheath, and will cut off from you the righteous and the wicked. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Seeing then that I will cut off from you the righteous and the wicked, therefore my sword will go out of its sheath against all flesh from the south to the north. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All flesh will know that I, Yahweh, have drawn my sword out of its sheath. It will not return any more.”’</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Sigh therefore, you son of man. You shall sigh before their eyes with a broken heart<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and with bitterness. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> It shall be, when they ask you, ‘Why do you sigh?’ that you shall say, ‘Because of the news, for it comes! Every heart will melt, all hands will be feeble, every spirit will faint, and all knees will be weak as water. Behold, it comes, and it shall be done, says the Lord Yahweh.’”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “Son of man, prophesy, and say, ‘Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“A sword! A sword!</p>

<p>It is sharpened,</p>

<p>and also polished.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> It is sharpened that it may make a slaughter.</p>

<p>It is polished that it may be as lightning.</p>

<p>Shall we then make mirth?</p>

<p>The rod of my son condemns every tree.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> It is given to be polished,</p>

<p>that it may be handled.</p>

<p>The sword is sharpened.</p>

<p>Yes, it is polished,</p>

<p>to give it into the hand of the killer.”’</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Cry and wail, son of man;</p>

<p>for it is on my people.</p>

<p>It is on all the princes of Israel.</p>

<p>They are delivered over to the sword with my people.</p>

<p>Therefore beat your thigh.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “For there is a trial. What if even the rod that condemns will be no more?” says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “You therefore, son of man, prophesy,</p>

<p>and strike your hands together.</p>

<p>Let the sword be doubled the third time,</p>

<p>the sword of the fatally wounded.</p>

<p>It is the sword of the great one who is fatally wounded,</p>

<p>which enters into their rooms.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have set the threatening sword against all their gates,</p>

<p>that their heart may melt,</p>

<p>and their stumblings be multiplied.</p>

<p>Ah! It is made as lightning.</p>

<p>It is pointed for slaughter.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Gather yourselves together.</p>

<p>Go to the right.</p>

<p>Set yourselves in array.</p>

<p>Go to the left,</p>

<p>wherever your face is set.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will also strike my hands together,</p>

<p>and I will cause my wrath to rest.</p>

<p>I, Yahweh, have spoken it.”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yahweh’s word came to me again, saying, <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “Also, you son of man, appoint two ways, that the sword of the king of Babylon may come. They both shall come out of one land, and mark out a place; mark it out at the head of the way to the city. <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You shall appoint a way for the sword to come to Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and to Judah in Jerusalem the fortified. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the king of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination. He shook the arrows back and forth. He consulted the teraphim.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> He looked in the liver. <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In his right hand was the lot for Jerusalem, to set battering rams, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voice with shouting, to set battering rams against the gates, to cast up mounds, to build forts. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> It shall be to them as a false divination in their sight, who have sworn oaths to them; but he brings iniquity to memory, that they may be taken.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: ‘Because you have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your doings your sins appear; because you have come to memory, you shall be taken with the hand.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “‘You, deadly wounded wicked one, the prince of Israel, whose day has come, in the time of the iniquity of the end, <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Remove the turban, and take off the crown. This will not be as it was. Exalt that which is low, and abase that which is high. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I will overturn, overturn, overturn it. This also shall be no more, until he comes whose right it is; and I will give it.”’</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> “You, son of man, prophesy, and say, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh concerning the children of Ammon, and concerning their reproach:</p>

<p>“A sword! A sword is drawn!</p>

<p>It is polished for the slaughter,</p>

<p>to cause it to devour,</p>

<p>that it may be as lightning;</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> while they see for you false visions,</p>

<p>while they divine lies to you,</p>

<p>to lay you on the necks of the wicked who are deadly wounded,</p>

<p>whose day has come in the time of the iniquity of the end.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Cause it to return into its sheath.</p>

<p>In the place where you were created,</p>

<p>in the land of your birth, will I judge you.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> I will pour out my indignation on you;</p>

<p>I will blow on you with the fire of my wrath;</p>

<p>and I will deliver you into the hand of brutish men,</p>

<p>skillful to destroy.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> You will be for fuel to the fire.</p>

<p>Your blood will be in the middle of the land.</p>

<p>You shall be remembered no more;</p>

<p>for I, Yahweh, have spoken it.”’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>literally, the breaking of your thighs</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>teraphim were household idols that may have been associated with inheritance rights to the household property.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>