<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, set your face toward the children of Ammon, and prophesy against them: <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and tell the children of Ammon, Hear the word of the Lord Yahweh: Thus says the Lord Yahweh, Because you said, Aha, against my sanctuary, when it was profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was made desolate; and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity: <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> therefore, behold, I will deliver you to the children of the east for a possession, and they shall set their encampments in you, and make their dwellings in you; they shall eat your fruit, and they shall drink your milk. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will make Rabbah a stable for camels, and the children of Ammon a resting place for flocks: and you shall know that I am Yahweh. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because you have clapped your hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced with all the despite of your soul against the land of Israel; <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> therefore, behold, I have stretched out my hand on you, and will deliver you for a plunder to the nations; and I will cut you off from the peoples, and I will cause you to perish out of the countries: I will destroy you; and you shall know that I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because Moab and Seir say, Behold, the house of Judah is like all the nations; <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the country, Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim, <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> to the children of the east, to go against the children of Ammon; and I will give them for a possession, that the children of Ammon may not be remembered among the nations. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and I will execute judgments on Moab; and they shall know that I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because Edom has dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and has greatly offended, and revenged himself on them; <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh, I will stretch out my hand on Edom, and will cut off man and animal from it; and I will make it desolate from Teman; even to Dedan shall they fall by the sword. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will lay my vengeance on Edom by the hand of my people Israel; and they shall do in Edom according to my anger and according to my wrath; and they shall know my vengeance, says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because the Philistines have dealt by revenge, and have taken vengeance with despite of soul to destroy with perpetual hostility; <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh, Behold, I will stretch out my hand on the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethites, and destroy the remnant of the sea coast. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will execute great vengeance on them with wrathful rebukes; and they shall know that I am Yahweh, when I shall lay my vengeance on them.</p>

</body>
</html>