<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the eleventh year, in the third month, in the first day of the month, Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to his multitude:</p>

<p>Whom are you like in your greatness?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, the Assyrian was a cedar in Lebanon</p>

<p>with beautiful branches,</p>

<p>and with a forest-like shade,</p>

<p>and of high stature;</p>

<p>and its top was among the thick boughs.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The waters nourished it,</p>

<p>the deep made it to grow:</p>

<p>its rivers ran all around its plantation;</p>

<p>and it sent out its channels to all the trees of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore its stature was exalted above all the trees of the field;</p>

<p>and its boughs were multiplied,</p>

<p>and its branches became long by reason of many waters,</p>

<p>when it spread them out.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All the birds of the sky made their nests in its boughs;</p>

<p>and under its branches all the animals of the field gave birth to their young;</p>

<p>and all great nations lived under its shadow.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus was it beautiful in its greatness,</p>

<p>in the length of its branches;</p>

<p>for its root was by many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The cedars in the garden of God could not hide it;</p>

<p>the cypress trees were not like its boughs,</p>

<p>and the pine trees were not as its branches;</p>

<p>nor was any tree in the garden of God like it in its beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I made it beautiful by the multitude of its branches,</p>

<p>so that all the trees of Eden,</p>

<p>that were in the garden of God, envied it.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore thus said the Lord Yahweh: Because you are exalted in stature, and he has set his top among the thick boughs, and his heart is lifted up in his height; <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will even deliver him into the hand of the mighty one of the nations; he shall surely deal with him; I have driven him out for his wickedness. <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Strangers, the terrible of the nations, have cut him off, and have left him: on the mountains and in all the valleys his branches are fallen, and his boughs are broken by all the watercourses of the land; and all the peoples of the earth are gone down from his shadow, and have left him. <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> On his ruin all the birds of the sky shall dwell, and all the animals of the field shall be on his branches; <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> to the end that none of all the trees by the waters exalt themselves in their stature, neither set their top among the thick boughs, nor that their mighty ones stand up on their height, even all who drink water: for they are all delivered to death, to the lower parts of the earth, among the children of men, with those who go down to the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: In the day when he went down to Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> I caused a mourning: I covered the deep for him, and I restrained its rivers; and the great waters were stayed; and I caused Lebanon to mourn for him, and all the trees of the field fainted for him. <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I made the nations to shake at the sound of his fall, when I cast him down to Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> with those who descend into the pit; and all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water, were comforted in the lower parts of the earth. <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They also went down into Sheol with him to those who are slain by the sword; yes, those who were his arm, who lived under his shadow in the middle of the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To whom are you thus like in glory and in greatness among the trees of Eden? yet you will be brought down with the trees of Eden to the lower parts of the earth: you shall lie in the middle of the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword.</p>

<p>This is Pharaoh and all his multitude, says the Lord Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>