<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Again, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, write the name of the day, this same day. The king of Babylon drew close to Jerusalem this same day. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Utter a parable to the rebellious house, and tell them, Thus says the Lord Yahweh,</p>

<p>Set on the cauldron,</p>

<p>set it on,</p>

<p>and also pour water into it:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> gather its pieces into it,</p>

<p>even every good piece,</p>

<p>the thigh, and the shoulder;</p>

<p>fill it with the choice bones.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Take the choice of the flock,</p>

<p>and also a pile of wood for the bones under the cauldron;</p>

<p>make it boil well;</p>

<p>yes, let its bones be boiled within it.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>Woe to the bloody city,</p>

<p>to the cauldron whose rust is therein,</p>

<p>and whose rust is not gone out of it!</p>

<p>take out of it piece after piece;</p>

<p>No lot is fallen on it.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For her blood is in the middle of her;</p>

<p>she set it on the bare rock;</p>

<p>she didn’t pour it on the ground,</p>

<p>to cover it with dust.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> That it may cause wrath to come up to take vengeance,</p>

<p>I have set her blood on the bare rock,</p>

<p>that it should not be covered.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>Woe to the bloody city!</p>

<p>I also will make the pile great.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Heap on the wood,</p>

<p>make the fire hot,</p>

<p>boil the meat well,</p>

<p>and make the broth thick,</p>

<p>and let the bones be burned.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then set it empty on its coals,</p>

<p>that it may be hot,</p>

<p>and its brass may burn,</p>

<p>and that its filthiness may be molten in it,</p>

<p>that its rust may be consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> She is weary with toil;</p>

<p>yet her great rust,</p>

<p>rust by fire, doesn’t leave her.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In your filthiness is lewdness: because I have cleansed you and you weren’t cleansed, you shall not be cleansed from your filthiness any more, until I have caused my wrath toward you to rest.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I, Yahweh, have spoken it: it shall happen, and I will do it: I will not go back, neither will I spare, neither will I repent; according to your ways, and according to your doings, shall they judge you, says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Also Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Son of man, behold, I will take away from you the desire of your eyes with a stroke: yet you shall neither mourn nor weep, neither shall your tears run down. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sigh, but not aloud, make no mourning for the dead; bind your headdress on you, and put your shoes on your feet, and don’t cover your lips, and don’t eat men’s bread.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So I spoke to the people in the morning; and at evening my wife died; and I did in the morning as I was commanded.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The people said to me, Won’t you tell us what these things are to us, that you do so?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then I said to them, Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Speak to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of your power, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pities; and your sons and your daughters whom you have left behind shall fall by the sword. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You shall do as I have done: you shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Your tires shall be on your heads, and your shoes on your feet: you shall not mourn nor weep; but you shall pine away in your iniquities, and moan one toward another. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thus Ezekiel shall be a sign to you; according to all that he has done, you will do. When this comes, then you will know that I am the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> You, son of man, shall it not be in the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that whereupon they set their heart, their sons and their daughters, <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> that in that day he who escapes shall come to you, to cause you to hear it with your ears? <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> In that day your mouth will be opened to him who has escaped, and you shall speak, and be no more mute: so you will be a sign to them; and they shall know that I am Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>