<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and against all Egypt. <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Speak and say, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>“Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh king of Egypt,</p>

<p>the great monster that lies in the middle of his rivers,</p>

<p>that has said, ‘My river is my own,</p>

<p>and I have made it for myself.’</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will put hooks in your jaws,</p>

<p>and I will make the fish of your rivers stick to your scales;</p>

<p>and I will bring you up out of the middle of your rivers,</p>

<p>with all the fish of your rivers which stick to your scales.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I’ll cast you out into the wilderness,</p>

<p>you and all the fish of your rivers.</p>

<p>You’ll fall on the open field.</p>

<p>You won’t be brought together,</p>

<p>nor gathered.</p>

<p>I have given you for food to the animals of the earth</p>

<p>and to the birds of the sky.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All the inhabitants of Egypt will know that I am Yahweh, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel. <a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When they took hold of you by your hand, you broke, and tore all their shoulders; and when they leaned on you, you broke, and paralyzed all of their thighs.”</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Behold, I will bring a sword on you, and will cut off man and animal from you. <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste; and they shall know that I am Yahweh.</p>

<p>Because he has said, ‘The river is mine, and I have made it;’ <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> therefore, behold, I am against you, and against your rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt an utter waste and desolation, from the tower of Seveneh even to the border of Ethiopia. <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of animal shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years. <a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the middle of the countries that are desolate; and her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be a desolation forty years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.”</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For thus says the Lord Yahweh: “At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the peoples where they were scattered; <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and I will bring back the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their birth; and they shall be there a base kingdom. <a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It shall be the base of the kingdoms; neither shall it any more lift itself up above the nations: and I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations. <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing iniquity to memory, when they turn to look after them: and they shall know that I am the Lord Yahweh.”’”</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in the first month, in the first day of the month, Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon caused his army to serve a great service against Tyre: every head was made bald, and every shoulder was worn; yet had he no wages, nor his army, from Tyre, for the service that he had served against it. <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and he shall carry off her multitude, and take her plunder, and take her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army. <a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have given him the land of Egypt as his recompense for which he served, because they worked for me, says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In that day will I cause a horn to sprout for the house of Israel, and I will give you the opening of the mouth among them; and they shall know that I am Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>