<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Moreover, take up a lamentation for the princes of Israel, <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and say,</p>

<p>‘What was your mother?</p>

<p>A lioness.</p>

<p>She couched among lions,</p>

<p>in the middle of the young lions she nourished her cubs.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> She brought up one of her cubs.</p>

<p>He became a young lion,</p>

<p>and he learned to catch the prey.</p>

<p>He devoured men.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The nations also heard of him.</p>

<p>He was taken in their pit;</p>

<p>and they brought him with hooks to the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “‘Now when she saw that she had waited,</p>

<p>and her hope was lost,</p>

<p>then she took another of her cubs,</p>

<p>and made him a young lion.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He went up and down among the lions;</p>

<p>he became a young lion,</p>

<p>and he learned to catch the prey.</p>

<p>He devoured men.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He knew their palaces,</p>

<p>and laid waste their cities;</p>

<p>and the land was desolate,</p>

<p>with its fullness,</p>

<p>because of the noise of his roaring.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then the nations set against him on every side from the provinces;</p>

<p>and they spread their net over him.</p>

<p>He was taken in their pit.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They put him in a cage with hooks,</p>

<p>and brought him to the king of Babylon.</p>

<p>They brought him into strongholds,</p>

<p>that his voice should no more be heard on the mountains of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “‘Your mother was like a vine,</p>

<p>in your blood,</p>

<p>planted by the waters.</p>

<p>It was fruitful and full of branches by reason of many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> It had strong rods for the scepters of those who bore rule,</p>

<p>and their stature was exalted among the thick boughs,</p>

<p>and they were seen in their height</p>

<p>with the multitude of their branches.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But it was plucked up in fury,</p>

<p>it was cast down to the ground,</p>

<p>and the east wind dried up its fruit.</p>

<p>Its strong rods were broken off and withered.</p>

<p>The fire consumed them.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now it is planted in the wilderness,</p>

<p>in a dry and thirsty land.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Fire has gone out of the rods of its branches.</p>

<p>It has devoured its fruit,</p>

<p>so that there is in it no strong rod to be a scepter to rule.’</p>

<p>This is a lamentation, and shall be for a lamentation.”</p>

</body>
</html>