<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the eleventh year, in the first of the month, Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, because Tyre has said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is broken: the gate of the peoples; she is turned to me; I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste: <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh, Behold, I am against you, Tyre, and will cause many nations to come up against you, as the sea causes its waves to come up. <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They shall destroy the walls of Tyre, and break down her towers: I will also scrape her dust from her, and make her a bare rock. <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> She shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the middle of the sea; for I have spoken it, says the Lord Yahweh; and she shall become a plunder to the nations. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Her daughters who are in the field shall be slain with the sword: and they shall know that I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold, I will bring on Tyre Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, king of kings, from the north, with horses, and with chariots, and with horsemen, and a company, and many people. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He shall kill your daughters in the field with the sword; and he shall make forts against you, and cast up a mound against you, and raise up the buckler against you. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He shall set his battering engines against your walls, and with his axes he shall break down your towers. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover you: your walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of the wagons, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into your gates, as men enter into a city in which is made a breach. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> With the hoofs of his horses shall he tread down all your streets; he shall kill your people with the sword; and the pillars of your strength shall go down to the ground. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They shall make a plunder of your riches, and make a prey of your merchandise; and they shall break down your walls, and destroy your pleasant houses; and they shall lay your stones and your timber and your dust in the middle of the waters. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will cause the noise of your songs to cease; and the sound of your harps shall be no more heard. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will make you a bare rock; you shall be a place for the spreading of nets; you shall be built no more: for I Yahweh have spoken it, says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh to Tyre: shall not the islands shake at the sound of your fall, when the wounded groan, when the slaughter is made within you? <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones, and lay aside their robes, and strip off their embroidered garments: they shall clothe themselves with trembling; they shall sit on the ground, and shall tremble every moment, and be astonished at you. <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They shall take up a lamentation over you, and tell you,</p>

<p>How you are destroyed,</p>

<p>who were inhabited by seafaring men,</p>

<p>the renowned city,</p>

<p>who was strong in the sea,</p>

<p>she and her inhabitants,</p>

<p>who caused their terror to be on all who lived there!</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now shall the islands tremble in the day of your fall;</p>

<p>yes, the islands that are in the sea shall be dismayed at your departure.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For thus says the Lord Yahweh: When I shall make you a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited; when I shall bring up the deep on you, and the great waters shall cover you; <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> then I will bring you down with those who descend into the pit, to the people of old time, and will make you to dwell in the lower parts of the earth, in the places that are desolate of old, with those who go down to the pit, that you be not inhabited; and I will set glory in the land of the living: <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I will make you a terror, and you shall no more have any being; though you are sought for, yet you will never be found again, says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>