<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 47</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 47</h2>

<p><a id="c47_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He brought me back to the door of the house; and behold, waters issued out from under the threshold of the house eastward; (for the forefront of the house was toward the east;) and the waters came down from under, from the right side of the house, on the south of the altar. <a id="c47_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then he brought me out by the way of the gate northward, and led me round by the way outside to the outer gate, by the way of the gate that looks toward the east; and behold, there ran out waters on the right side.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When the man went out eastward with the line in his hand, he measured one thousand cubits,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and he caused me to pass through the waters, waters that were to the ankles. <a id="c47_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Again he measured one thousand, and caused me to pass through the waters, waters that were to the knees. Again he measured one thousand, and caused me to pass through waters that were to the waist. <a id="c47_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Afterward he measured one thousand; and it was a river that I could not pass through; for the waters were risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed through. <a id="c47_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He said to me, Son of man, have you seen?</p>

<p>Then he brought me, and caused me to return to the bank of the river. <a id="c47_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now when I had returned, behold, on the bank of the river were very many trees on the one side and on the other. <a id="c47_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then he said to me, These waters flow out toward the eastern region, and will go down into the Arabah; and they will go toward the sea; and flow into the sea which will be made to flow out; and the waters will be healed. <a id="c47_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It shall happen, that every living creature which swarms, in every place where the rivers come, shall live; and there shall be a very great multitude of fish; for these waters have come there, and the waters of the sea shall be healed, and everything shall live wherever the river comes. <a id="c47_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> It shall happen, that fishermen shall stand by it: from En Gedi even to En Eglaim shall be a place for the spreading of nets; their fish shall be after their kinds, as the fish of the great sea, exceeding many. <a id="c47_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the miry places of it, and its marshes, shall not be healed; they shall be given up to salt. <a id="c47_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By the river on its bank, on this side and on that side, shall grow every tree for food, whose leaf shall not wither, neither shall its fruit fail: it shall produce new fruit every month, because its waters issue out of the sanctuary; and its fruit shall be for food, and its leaf for healing.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: This shall be the border, by which you shall divide the land for inheritance according to the twelve tribes of Israel: Joseph shall have two portions. <a id="c47_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You shall inherit it, one as well as another; for I swore to give it to your fathers: and this land shall fall to you for inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> This shall be the border of the land:</p>

<p>On the north side, from the great sea, by the way of Hethlon, to the entrance of Zedad; <a id="c47_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath; Hazer Hatticon, which is by the border of Hauran. <a id="c47_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The border from the sea, shall be Hazar Enon at the border of Damascus; and on the north northward is the border of Hamath. This is the north side.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The east side, between Hauran and Damascus and Gilead, and the land of Israel, shall be the Jordan; from the north border to the east sea you shall measure. This is the east side.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The south side southward shall be from Tamar as far as the waters of Meriboth Kadesh, to the brook, to the great sea. This is the south side southward.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The west side shall be the great sea, from the south border as far as over against the entrance of Hamath. This is the west side.</p>

<p><a id="c47_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So you shall divide this land to you according to the tribes of Israel. <a id="c47_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It shall happen, that you shall divide it by lot for an inheritance to you and to the aliens who live among you, who shall father children among you; and they shall be to you as the native-born among the children of Israel; they shall have inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel. <a id="c47_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> It shall happen, that in what tribe the stranger lives, there you shall give him his inheritance, says the Lord Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>