<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover the Spirit lifted me up, and brought me to the east gate of Yahweh’s house, which looks eastward: and see, at the door of the gate twenty-five men; and I saw among them Jaazaniah the son of Azzur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He said to me, “Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity, and who give wicked counsel in this city; <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> who say, ‘The time is not near to build houses. This is the cauldron, and we are the meat.’ <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, son of man.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yahweh’s Spirit fell on me, and he said to me, “Speak, ‘Yahweh says: “Thus you have said, house of Israel; for I know the things that come into your mind. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You have multiplied your slain in this city, and you have filled its streets with the slain.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “‘Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Your slain whom you have laid in the middle of it, they are the meat, and this is the cauldron; but you will be brought out of the middle of it. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You have feared the sword; and I will bring the sword on you,” says the Lord Yahweh. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “I will bring you out of the middle of it, and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You will fall by the sword. I will judge you in the border of Israel; and you will know that I am Yahweh. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This will not be your cauldron, neither will you be the meat in the middle of it. I will judge you in the border of Israel. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You will know that I am Yahweh, for you have not walked in my statutes, neither have you executed my ordinances, but have done after the ordinances of the nations that are around you.”’”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When I prophesied, Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then fell I down on my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, “Ah Lord Yahweh! will you make a full end of the remnant of Israel?”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “Son of man, your brothers, even your brothers, the men of your relatives, and all the house of Israel, all of them, to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, ‘Go far away from Yahweh. This land has been given to us for a possession.’”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Therefore say, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Whereas I have removed them far off among the nations, and whereas I have scattered them among the countries, yet I will be to them a sanctuary for a little while in the countries where they have come.”’</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “Therefore say, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh: “I will gather you from the peoples, and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “‘They will come there, and they will take away all its detestable things and all its abominations from there. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you. I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh; <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> that they may walk in my statutes, and keep my ordinances, and do them. They will be my people, and I will be their God. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But as for them whose heart walks after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will bring their way on their own heads,’ says the Lord Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels were beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yahweh’s glory went up from the middle of the city, and stood on the mountain which is on the east side of the city. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The Spirit lifted me up, and brought me in the vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity.</p>

<p>So the vision that I had seen went up from me. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then I spoke to them of the captivity all the things that Yahweh had shown me.</p>

</body>
</html>