<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s word came again to me, saying, <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>Wail, Alas for the day!</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the day is near,</p>

<p>even the day of Yahweh is near;</p>

<p>it shall be a day of clouds,</p>

<p>a time of the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A sword shall come on Egypt,</p>

<p>and anguish shall be in Ethiopia,</p>

<p>when the slain shall fall in Egypt;</p>

<p>and they shall take away her multitude,</p>

<p>and her foundations shall be broken down.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ethiopia, and Put, and Lud, and all the mixed people, and Cub, and the children of the land that is allied with them, shall fall with them by the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh says:</p>

<p>They also who uphold Egypt shall fall;</p>

<p>and the pride of her power shall come down:</p>

<p>they shall fall by the sword in it from the tower of Seveneh,</p>

<p>says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They shall be desolate in the middle of the countries that are desolate;</p>

<p>and her cities shall be in the middle of the cities that are wasted.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They shall know that I am Yahweh,</p>

<p>when I have set a fire in Egypt,</p>

<p>and all her helpers are destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In that day messengers will go out from before me in ships to make the careless Ethiopians afraid; and there shall be anguish on them, as in the day of Egypt; for, behold, it comes.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease,</p>

<p>by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He and his people with him,</p>

<p>the terrible of the nations,</p>

<p>shall be brought in to destroy the land;</p>

<p>and they shall draw their swords against Egypt,</p>

<p>and fill the land with the slain.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will make the rivers dry,</p>

<p>and will sell the land into the hand of evil men;</p>

<p>and I will make the land desolate,</p>

<p>and all that is therein,</p>

<p>by the hand of strangers:</p>

<p>I, Yahweh, have spoken it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>I will also destroy the idols,</p>

<p>and I will cause the images to cease from Memphis;</p>

<p>and there shall be no more a prince from the land of Egypt:</p>

<p>and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will make Pathros desolate,</p>

<p>and will set a fire in Zoan,</p>

<p>and will execute judgments on No.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will pour my wrath on Sin,</p>

<p>the stronghold of Egypt;</p>

<p>and I will cut off the multitude of No.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will set a fire in Egypt:</p>

<p>Sin shall be in great anguish,</p>

<p>and No shall be broken up;</p>

<p>and Memphis shall have adversaries in the daytime.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword;</p>

<p>and they shall go into captivity.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> At Tehaphnehes also the day shall withdraw itself,</p>

<p>when I shall break there the yokes of Egypt,</p>

<p>and the pride of her power shall cease in her:</p>

<p>as for her, a cloud shall cover her,</p>

<p>and her daughters shall go into captivity.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thus will I execute judgments on Egypt;</p>

<p>and they shall know that I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In the eleventh year, in the first month, in the seventh day of the month, Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and behold, it has not been bound up, to apply medicines, to put a bandage to bind it, that it be strong to hold the sword. <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong arm, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand. <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries. <a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand: but I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he shall groan before him with the groaning of a mortally wounded man. <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I will hold up the arms of the king of Babylon; and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall know that I am Yahweh, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch it out on the land of Egypt. <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them through the countries; and they shall know that I am Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>