<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, in the fifth of the month, as I was among the captives by the river Chebar, the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the fifth of the month, which was the fifth year of king Jehoiachin’s captivity, <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yahweh’s<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> word came expressly to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and Yahweh’s hand was there on him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I looked, and behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> a stormy wind came out of the north, a great cloud, with flashing lightning, and a brightness around it, and out of the middle of it as it were glowing metal, out of the middle of the fire. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Out of its center came the likeness of four living creatures. This was their appearance: they had the likeness of a man. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Everyone had four faces, and each one of them had four wings. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their feet were straight feet; and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf’s foot; and they sparkled like burnished brass. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides; and the four of them had their faces and their wings thus: <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> their wings were joined to one another; they didn’t turn when they went; each one went straight forward.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As for the likeness of their faces, they had the face of a man; and the four of them had the face of a lion on the right side; and the four of them had the face of an ox on the left side; the four of them also had the face of an eagle. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Such were their faces. Their wings were spread out above. Two wings of each one touched another, and two covered their bodies. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Each one went straight forward: where the spirit was to go, they went; they didn’t turn when they went. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of torches: the fire went up and down among the living creatures; and the fire was bright, and lightning went out of the fire. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now as I saw the living creatures, behold, one wheel on the earth beside the living creatures, for each of the four faces of it. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The appearance of the wheels and their work was like a beryl: and the four of them had one likeness; and their appearance and their work was as it were a wheel within a wheel. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When they went, they went in their four directions: they didn’t turn when they went. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As for their rims, they were high and dreadful; and the four of them had their rims full of eyes all around.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> When the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wherever the spirit was to go, they went; there was the spirit to go: and the wheels were lifted up beside them; for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood; and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up beside them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Over the head of the living creature there was the likeness of an expanse, like the awesome crystal to look on, stretched out over their heads above. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Under the expanse were their wings straight, the one toward the other: each one had two which covered on this side, and every one had two which covered on that side, their bodies. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When they went, I heard the noise of their wings like the noise of great waters, like the voice of the Almighty, a noise of tumult like the noise of an army: when they stood, they let down their wings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> There was a voice above the expanse that was over their heads: when they stood, they let down their wings. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Above the expanse that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> stone; and on the likeness of the throne was a likeness as the appearance of a man on it above. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I saw as it were glowing metal, as the appearance of fire within it all around, from the appearance of his waist and upward; and from the appearance of his waist and downward I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness around him. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> As the appearance of the rainbow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness all around.</p>

<p>This was the appearance of the likeness of Yahweh’s glory. When I saw it, I fell on my face, and I heard a voice of one that spoke.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, lapis lazuli</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>