<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and tell them, even to the shepherds, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Woe to the shepherds of Israel who feed themselves! Shouldn’t the shepherds feed the sheep? <a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You eat the fat, and you clothe yourself with the wool, you kill the fatlings; but you don’t feed the sheep. <a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You haven’t strengthened the diseased, neither have you healed that which was sick, neither have you bound up that which was broken, neither have you brought back that which was driven away, neither have you sought that which was lost; but with force and with rigor you have ruled over them. <a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They were scattered, because there was no shepherd; and they became food to all the animals of the field, and were scattered. <a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My sheep wandered through all the mountains, and on every high hill: yes, my sheep were scattered on all the surface of the earth; and there was no one who searched or sought.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, you shepherds, hear Yahweh’s word: <a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As I live, says the Lord Yahweh, surely because my sheep became a prey, and my sheep became food to all the animals of the field, because there was no shepherd, neither did my shepherds search for my sheep, but the shepherds fed themselves, and didn’t feed my sheep; <a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> therefore, you shepherds, hear Yahweh’s word: <a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my sheep at their hand, and cause them to cease from feeding the sheep; neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any more; and I will deliver my sheep from their mouth, that they may not be food for them.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold, I myself, even I, will search for my sheep, and will seek them out. <a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As a shepherd seeks out his flock in the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered abroad, so will I seek out my sheep; and I will deliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day. <a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will bring them out from the peoples, and gather them from the countries, and will bring them into their own land; and I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the watercourses, and in all the inhabited places of the country. <a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will feed them with good pasture; and on the mountains of the height of Israel shall their fold be: there shall they lie down in a good fold; and on fat pasture shall they feed on the mountains of Israel. <a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I will cause them to lie down, says the Lord Yahweh. <a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will seek that which was lost, and will bring back that which was driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and will strengthen that which was sick: but the fat and the strong I will destroy; I will feed them in justice.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> As for you, O my flock, thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold, I judge between sheep and sheep, the rams and the male goats. <a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Does it seem a small thing to you to have fed on the good pasture, but you must tread down with your feet the residue of your pasture? and to have drunk of the clear waters, but you must foul the residue with your feet? <a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As for my sheep, they eat that which you have trodden with your feet, and they drink that which you have fouled with your feet.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh to them: Behold, I, even I, will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep. <a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Because you thrust with side and with shoulder, and push all the diseased with your horns, until you have scattered them abroad; <a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> therefore will I save my flock, and they shall no more be a prey; and I will judge between sheep and sheep. <a id="c34_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them, even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shall be their shepherd. <a id="c34_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I, Yahweh, will be their God, and my servant David prince among them; I, Yahweh, have spoken it.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will cause evil animals to cease out of the land; and they shall dwell securely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods. <a id="c34_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I will make them and the places around my hill a blessing; and I will cause the shower to come down in its season; there shall be showers of blessing. <a id="c34_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The tree of the field shall yield its fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase, and they shall be secure in their land; and they shall know that I am Yahweh, when I have broken the bars of their yoke, and have delivered them out of the hand of those who made slaves of them. <a id="c34_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They shall no more be a prey to the nations, neither shall the animals of the earth devour them; but they shall dwell securely, and no one shall make them afraid. <a id="c34_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I will raise up to them a plantation for renown, and they shall be no more consumed with famine in the land, neither bear the shame of the nations any more. <a id="c34_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They shall know that I, Yahweh, their God am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, says the Lord Yahweh. <a id="c34_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> You my sheep, the sheep of my pasture, are men, and I am your God, says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>