<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He said to me, “Son of man, stand on your feet, and I will speak with you.” <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The Spirit entered into me when he spoke to me, and set me on my feet; and I heard him who spoke to me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He said to me, “Son of man, I send you to the children of Israel, to a nation of rebels who have rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me even to this very day. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The children are impudent and stiff-hearted. I am sending you to them, and you shall tell them, ‘Thus says the Lord<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Yahweh.’ <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear, (for they are a rebellious house), yet shall know that there has been a prophet among them. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You, son of man, don’t be afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns are with you, and you do dwell among scorpions. Don’t be afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You shall speak my words to them, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear; for they are most rebellious. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But you, son of man, hear what I tell you. Don’t be rebellious like that rebellious house. Open your mouth, and eat that which I give you.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me; and, behold, a scroll of a book was therein; <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He spread it before me: and it was written within and without; and there were written therein lamentations, and mourning, and woe.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>