<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then came certain of the elders of Israel to me, and sat before me. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Son of man, these men have taken their idols into their heart, and put the stumbling block of their iniquity before their face. Should I be inquired of at all by them? <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore speak to them, and tell them, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Every man of the house of Israel who takes his idols into his heart, and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and comes to the prophet; I Yahweh will answer him therein according to the multitude of his idols; <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that I may take the house of Israel in their own heart, because they are all estranged from me through their idols.”’</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Therefore tell the house of Israel, ‘Thus says the Lord Yahweh: “Return, and turn yourselves from your idols! Turn away your faces from all your abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “‘“For everyone of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who live in Israel, who separates himself from me, and takes his idols into his heart, and puts the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and comes to the prophet to inquire for himself of me; I Yahweh will answer him by myself. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will set my face against that man, and will make him an astonishment, for a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him off from among my people; and you will know that I am Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “‘“If the prophet is deceived and speaks a word, I, Yahweh, have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand on him, and will destroy him from among my people Israel. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They will bear their iniquity. The iniquity of the prophet will be even as the iniquity of him who seeks him; <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> that the house of Israel may go no more astray from me, neither defile themselves any more with all their transgressions; but that they may be my people, and I may be their God,” says the Lord Yahweh.’”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “Son of man, when a land sins against me by committing a trespass, and I stretch out my hand on it, and break the staff of its bread, and send famine on it, and cut off from it man and animal; <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they should deliver only their own souls by their righteousness,” says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “If I cause evil animals to pass through the land, and they ravage it, and it is made desolate, so that no man may pass through because of the animals; <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> though these three men were in it, as I live,” says the Lord Yahweh, “they would deliver neither sons nor daughters. They only would be delivered, but the land would be desolate.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “Or if I bring a sword on that land, and say, ‘Sword, go through the land; so that I cut off from it man and animal;’ <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> though these three men were in it, as I live,” says the Lord Yahweh, “they would deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they only would be delivered themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my wrath on it in blood, to cut off from it man and animal; <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> though Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, as I live,” says the Lord Yahweh, “they would deliver neither son nor daughter; they would deliver only their own souls by their righteousness.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For thus says the Lord Yahweh: “How much more when I send my four severe judgments on Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and the evil animals, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and animal! <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yet, behold, therein shall be left a remnant that shall be carried out, both sons and daughters. Behold, they shall come out to you, and you shall see their way and their doings; and you shall be comforted concerning the evil that I have brought on Jerusalem, even concerning all that I have brought on it. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They will comfort you, when you see their way and their doings; and you will know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it,” says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>