<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> You, son of man, prophesy to the mountains of Israel, and say, You mountains of Israel, hear Yahweh’s word. <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because the enemy has said against you, Aha! and, The ancient high places are ours in possession; <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> therefore prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because, even because they have made you desolate, and swallowed you up on every side, that you might be a possession to the residue of the nations, and you are taken up in the lips of talkers, and the evil report of the people; <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> therefore, you mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord Yahweh: Thus says the Lord Yahweh to the mountains and to the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys, to the desolate wastes and to the cities that are forsaken, which are become a prey and derision to the residue of the nations that are all around; <a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: Surely in the fire of my jealousy I have spoken against the residue of the nations, and against all Edom, that have appointed my land to themselves for a possession with the joy of all their heart, with despite of soul, to cast it out for a prey. <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and tell the mountains and to the hills, to the watercourses and to the valleys, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Behold, I have spoken in my jealousy and in my wrath, because you have borne the shame of the nations: <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh: I have sworn, Surely the nations that are around you, they shall bear their shame.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But you, mountains of Israel, you shall shoot out your branches, and yield your fruit to my people Israel; for they are at hand to come. <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, behold, I am for you, and I will turn into you, and you shall be tilled and sown; <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and I will multiply men on you, all the house of Israel, even all of it; and the cities shall be inhabited, and the waste places shall be built; <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and I will multiply on you man and animal; and they shall increase and be fruitful; and I will cause you to be inhabited after your former estate, and you will do better than at your beginnings: and you shall know that I am Yahweh. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yes, I will cause men to walk on you, even my people Israel; and they shall possess you, and you shall be their inheritance, and you shall no more henceforth bereave them of children.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: Because they say to you, You are a devourer of men, and have been a bereaver of your nation; <a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> therefore you shall devour men no more, neither bereave your nation any more, says the Lord Yahweh; <a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> neither will I let you hear any more the shame of the nations, neither shall you bear the reproach of the peoples any more, neither shall you cause your nation to stumble any more, says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Son of man, when the house of Israel lived in their own land, they defiled it by their way and by their doings: their way before me was as the uncleanness of a woman in her impurity. <a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore I poured out my wrath on them for the blood which they had poured out on the land, and because they had defiled it with their idols; <a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and I scattered them among the nations, and they were dispersed through the countries: according to their way and according to their doings I judged them. <a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When they came to the nations, where they went, they profaned my holy name; in that men said of them, These are the people of Yahweh, and are gone out of his land. <a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But I had respect for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations, where they went.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore tell the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord Yahweh: I don’t do this for your sake, house of Israel, but for my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations, where you went. <a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I will sanctify my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned among them; and the nations shall know that I am Yahweh, says the Lord Yahweh, when I shall be sanctified in you before their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For I will take you from among the nations, and gather you out of all the countries, and will bring you into your own land. <a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I cleanse you. <a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I will also give you a new heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you a heart of flesh. <a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I will put my Spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep my ordinances, and do them. <a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; and you shall be my people, and I will be your God. <a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I will save you from all your uncleanness: and I will call for the grain, and will multiply it, and lay no famine on you. <a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will multiply the fruit of the tree, and the increase of the field, that you may receive no more the reproach of famine among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then you shall remember your evil ways, and your doings that were not good; and you shall loathe yourselves in your own sight for your iniquities and for your abominations. <a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Nor for your sake do I this, says the Lord Yahweh, be it known to you: be ashamed and confounded for your ways, house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: In the day that I cleanse you from all your iniquities, I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be built. <a id="c36_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The land that was desolate shall be tilled, whereas it was a desolation in the sight of all who passed by. <a id="c36_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> They shall say, This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are fortified and inhabited. <a id="c36_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then the nations that are left around you shall know that I, Yahweh, have built the ruined places, and planted that which was desolate: I, Yahweh, have spoken it, and I will do it.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Thus says the Lord Yahweh: For this, moreover, will I be inquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them: I will increase them with men like a flock. <a id="c36_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> As the flock for sacrifice, as the flock of Jerusalem in her appointed feasts, so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of men; and they shall know that I am Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>