<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and its width six cubits: he set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent to gather together the satraps, the deputies, and the governors, the judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, to come to the dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then the satraps, the deputies, and the governors, the judges, the treasurers, the counselors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, were gathered together to the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded, peoples, nations, and languages, <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that whenever you hear the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music, you fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king has set up; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and whoever doesn’t fall down and worship shall the same hour be cast into the middle of a burning fiery furnace.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore at that time, when all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music, all the peoples, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshiped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore at that time certain Chaldeans came near, and brought accusation against the Jews. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They answered Nebuchadnezzar the king, O king, live for ever. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You, O king, have made a decree, that every man that shall hear the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music, shall fall down and worship the golden image; <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and whoever doesn’t fall down and worship shall be cast into the middle of a burning fiery furnace. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There are certain Jews whom you have appointed over the affairs of the province of Babylon: Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego; these men, O king, have not respected you. They don’t serve your gods, nor worship the golden image which you have set up.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then Nebuchadnezzar in rage and fury commanded to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Then they brought these men before the king. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Nebuchadnezzar answered them, Is it on purpose, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that you don’t serve my god, nor worship the golden image which I have set up? <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now if you are ready whenever you hear the sound of the horn, flute, zither, lyre, harp, pipe, and all kinds of music to fall down and worship the image which I have made, good: but if you don’t worship, you shall be cast the same hour into the middle of a burning fiery furnace; and who is that god that shall deliver you out of my hands?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered the king, Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If it happens, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace; and he will deliver us out of your hand, O king. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But if not, let it be known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods, nor worship the golden image which you have set up.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and the form of his appearance was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. He spoke, and commanded that they should heat the furnace seven times more than it was usually heated. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He commanded certain mighty men who were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then these men were bound in their pants, their tunics, and their mantles, and their other clothes, and were cast into the middle of the burning fiery furnace. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore because the king’s commandment was urgent, and the furnace exceeding hot, the flame of the fire killed those men who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> These three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell down bound into the middle of the burning fiery furnace.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonished, and rose up in haste: he spoke and said to his counselors, Didn’t we cast three men bound into the middle of the fire?</p>

<p>They answered the king, True, O king.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He answered, Look, I see four men loose, walking in the middle of the fire, and they are unharmed; and the aspect of the fourth is like a son of the gods.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace: he spoke and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, you servants of the Most High God, come out, and come here.</p>

<p>Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came out of the middle of the fire. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The satraps, the deputies, and the governors, and the king’s counselors, being gathered together, saw these men, that the fire had no power on their bodies, nor was the hair of their head singed, neither were their pants changed, nor had the smell of fire passed on them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Nebuchadnezzar spoke and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who has sent his angel, and delivered his servants who trusted in him, and have changed the king’s word, and have yielded their bodies, that they might not serve nor worship any god, except their own God. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Therefore I make a decree, that every people, nation, and language, which speak anything evil against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill; because there is no other god who is able to deliver after this sort.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of Babylon.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>