<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon Daniel had a dream and visions of his head on his bed: then he wrote the dream and told the sum of the matters.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Daniel spoke and said, I saw in my vision by night, and, behold, the four winds of the sky broke out on the great sea. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Four great animals came up from the sea, diverse one from another.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The first was like a lion, and had eagle’s wings: I saw until its wings were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth, and made to stand on two feet as a man; and a man’s heart was given to it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, another animal, a second, like a bear; and it was raised up on one side, and three ribs were in its mouth between its teeth: and they said thus to it, Arise, devour much flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> After this I saw, and behold, another, like a leopard, which had on its back four wings of a bird; the animal had also four heads; and dominion was given to it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> After this I saw in the night visions, and, behold, a fourth animal, awesome and powerful, and strong exceedingly; and it had great iron teeth; it devoured and broke in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet: and it was diverse from all the animals that were before it; and it had ten horns.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I considered the horns, and behold, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots: and behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth speaking great things.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I saw until thrones were placed,</p>

<p>and one who was ancient of days sat:</p>

<p>his clothing was white as snow,</p>

<p>and the hair of his head like pure wool;</p>

<p>his throne was fiery flames,</p>

<p>and its wheels burning fire.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A fiery stream issued and came out from before him:</p>

<p>thousands of thousands ministered to him,</p>

<p>and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him:</p>

<p>the judgment was set,</p>

<p>and the books were opened.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I saw at that time because of the voice of the great words which the horn spoke; I saw even until the animal was slain, and its body destroyed, and it was given to be burned with fire. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As for the rest of the animals, their dominion was taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and a time.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I saw in the night visions, and behold, there came with the clouds of the sky one like a son of man, and he came even to the ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> There was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all the peoples, nations, and languages should serve him: his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As for me, Daniel, my spirit was grieved within my body, and the visions of my head troubled me. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I came near to one of those who stood by, and asked him the truth concerning all this.</p>

<p>So he told me, and made me know the interpretation of the things. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> These great animals, which are four, are four kings, who shall arise out of the earth. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom, and possess the kingdom forever, even forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then I desired to know the truth concerning the fourth animal, which was diverse from all of them, exceedingly terrible, whose teeth were of iron, and its nails of brass; which devoured, broke in pieces, and stamped the residue with its feet; <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and concerning the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn which came up, and before which three fell, even that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spoke great things, whose look was more stout than its fellows. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I saw, and the same horn made war with the saints, and prevailed against them; <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> until the ancient of days came, and judgment was given to the saints of the Most High, and the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thus he said, The fourth animal shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be diverse from all the kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom shall ten kings arise: and another shall arise after them; and he shall be diverse from the former, and he shall put down three kings. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He shall speak words against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of the Most High; and he shall think to change the times and the law; and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and half a time.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But the judgment shall be set, and they shall take away his dominion, to consume and to destroy it to the end. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The kingdom and the dominion, and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole sky, shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High: his kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Here is the end of the matter. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts much troubled me, and my face was changed in me: but I kept the matter in my heart.</p>

</body>
</html>