<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the Medes, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in the first year of his reign I, Daniel, understood by the books the number of the years about which Yahweh’s word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> came to Jeremiah the prophet, for the accomplishing of the desolations of Jerusalem, even seventy years. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I set my face to the Lord God, to seek by prayer and petitions, with fasting and sackcloth and ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I prayed to Yahweh my God, and made confession, and said,</p>

<p>Oh, Lord, the great and dreadful God, who keeps covenant and loving kindness with those who love him and keep his commandments, <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> we have sinned, and have dealt perversely, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even turning aside from your precepts and from your ordinances; <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> neither have we listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lord, righteousness belongs to you, but to us confusion of face, as it is today; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, who are near, and who are far off, through all the countries where you have driven them, because of their trespass that they have trespassed against you. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lord, to us belongs confusion of face, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against you. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgiveness; for we have rebelled against him; <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> neither have we obeyed Yahweh our God’s voice, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yes, all Israel have transgressed your law, turning aside, that they should not obey your voice:</p>

<p>therefore the curse and the oath written in the law of Moses the servant of God has been poured out on us; for we have sinned against him. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us, and against our judges who judged us, by bringing on us a great evil; for under the whole sky, such has not been done as has been done to Jerusalem. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil has come on us: yet have we not entreated the favor of Yahweh our God, that we should turn from our iniquities, and have discernment in your truth. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore has Yahweh watched over the evil, and brought it on us; for Yahweh our God is righteous in all his works which he does, and we have not obeyed his voice.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now, Lord our God, who has brought your people out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and have gotten yourself renown, as it is today; we have sinned, we have done wickedly. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lord, according to all your righteousness, let your anger and please let your wrath be turned away from your city Jerusalem, your holy mountain; because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become a reproach to all who are around us.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now therefore, our God, listen to the prayer of your servant, and to his petitions, and cause your face to shine on your sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord’s sake. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> My God, turn your ear, and hear; open your eyes, and see our desolations, and the city which is called by your name: for we do not present our petitions before you for our righteousness, but for your great mercies’ sake. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Lord, hear; Lord, forgive; Lord, listen and do; don’t defer, for your own sake, my God, because your city and your people are called by your name.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> While I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before Yahweh my God for the holy mountain of my God; <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> yes, while I was speaking in prayer, the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening offering. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He instructed me, and talked with me, and said, Daniel, I have now come to give you wisdom and understanding. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> At the beginning of your petitions the commandment went out, and I have come to tell you; for you are greatly beloved: therefore consider the matter, and understand the vision.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Seventy weeks are decreed on your people and on your holy city, to finish disobedience, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most holy.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Know therefore and discern, that from the going out of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem to the Anointed One,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> the prince, shall be seven weeks, and sixty-two weeks: it shall be built again, with street and moat, even in troubled times. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> After the sixty-two weeks the Anointed One<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> shall be cut off, and shall have nothing: and the people of the prince who shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary; and its end shall be with a flood, and even to the end shall be war; desolations are determined. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He shall make a firm covenant with many for one week: and in the middle of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the offering to cease; and on the wing of abominations shall come one who makes desolate; and even to the full end, and that determined, shall wrath be poured out on the desolate.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations. </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>“Anointed One” can also be translated “Messiah” (same as “Christ”).</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>“Anointed One” can also be translated “Messiah” (same as “Christ”).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>