<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Don’t rejoice, Israel, to jubilation like the nations;</p>

<p>for you were unfaithful to your God.</p>

<p>You love the wages of a prostitute at every grain threshing floor.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The threshing floor and the wine press won’t feed them,</p>

<p>and the new wine will fail her.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They won’t dwell in Yahweh’s land;</p>

<p>but Ephraim will return to Egypt,</p>

<p>and they will eat unclean food in Assyria.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They won’t pour out wine offerings to Yahweh,</p>

<p>neither will they be pleasing to him.</p>

<p>Their sacrifices will be to them like the bread of mourners;</p>

<p>all who eat of it will be polluted;</p>

<p>for their bread will be for their appetite.</p>

<p>It will not come into Yahweh’s house.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> What will you do in the day of solemn assembly,</p>

<p>and in the day of the feast of Yahweh?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For, behold, they have gone away from destruction.</p>

<p>Egypt will gather them up.</p>

<p>Memphis will bury them.</p>

<p>Nettles will possess their pleasant things of silver.</p>

<p>Thorns will be in their tents.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The days of visitation have come.</p>

<p>The days of reckoning have come.</p>

<p>Israel will consider the prophet to be a fool,</p>

<p>and the man who is inspired to be insane,</p>

<p>because of the abundance of your sins,</p>

<p>and because your hostility is great.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A prophet watches over Ephraim with my God.</p>

<p>A fowler’s snare is on all of his paths,</p>

<p>and hostility in the house of his God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They have deeply corrupted themselves,</p>

<p>as in the days of Gibeah.</p>

<p>He will remember their iniquity.</p>

<p>He will punish them for their sins.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness.</p>

<p>I saw your fathers as the first ripe in the fig tree at its first season;</p>

<p>but they came to Baal Peor, and consecrated themselves to the shameful thing,</p>

<p>and became abominable like that which they loved.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As for Ephraim, their glory will fly away like a bird.</p>

<p>There will be no birth, no one with child, and no conception.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Though they bring up their children,</p>

<p>yet I will bereave them, so that not a man shall be left.</p>

<p>Indeed, woe also to them when I depart from them!</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I have seen Ephraim, like Tyre, planted in a pleasant place;</p>

<p>but Ephraim will bring out his children to the murderer.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Give them—Yahweh what will you give?</p>

<p>Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “All their wickedness is in Gilgal;</p>

<p>for there I hated them.</p>

<p>Because of the wickedness of their deeds I will drive them out of my house!</p>

<p>I will love them no more.</p>

<p>All their princes are rebels.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Ephraim is struck.</p>

<p>Their root has dried up.</p>

<p>They will bear no fruit.</p>

<p>Even though they give birth, yet I will kill the beloved ones of their womb.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My God will cast them away, because they did not listen to him;</p>

<p>and they will be wanderers among the nations.</p>

</body>
</html>