<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Listen to this, you priests!</p>

<p>Listen, house of Israel,</p>

<p>and give ear, house of the king!</p>

<p>For the judgment is against you;</p>

<p>for you have been a snare at Mizpah,</p>

<p>and a net spread on Tabor.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The rebels are deep in slaughter;</p>

<p>but I discipline all of them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I know Ephraim,</p>

<p>and Israel is not hidden from me;</p>

<p>for now, Ephraim, you have played the prostitute.</p>

<p>Israel is defiled.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their deeds won’t allow them to turn to their God;</p>

<p>for the spirit of prostitution is within them,</p>

<p>and they don’t know Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The pride of Israel testifies to his face.</p>

<p>Therefore Israel and Ephraim will stumble in their iniquity.</p>

<p>Judah also will stumble with them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They will go with their flocks and with their herds to seek Yahweh;</p>

<p>but they won’t find him.</p>

<p>He has withdrawn himself from them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are unfaithful to Yahweh;</p>

<p>for they have borne illegitimate children.</p>

<p>Now the new moon will devour them with their fields.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Blow the cornet in Gibeah,</p>

<p>and the trumpet in Ramah!</p>

<p>Sound a battle cry at Beth Aven, behind you, Benjamin!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ephraim will become a desolation in the day of rebuke.</p>

<p>Among the tribes of Israel, I have made known that which will surely be.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The princes of Judah are like those who remove a landmark.</p>

<p>I will pour out my wrath on them like water.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ephraim is oppressed,</p>

<p>he is crushed in judgment;</p>

<p>Because he is intent in his pursuit of idols.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore I am to Ephraim like a moth,</p>

<p>and to the house of Judah like rottenness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “When Ephraim saw his sickness,</p>

<p>and Judah his wound,</p>

<p>Then Ephraim went to Assyria,</p>

<p>and sent to king Jareb:</p>

<p>but he is not able to heal you,</p>

<p>neither will he cure you of your wound.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For I will be to Ephraim like a lion,</p>

<p>and like a young lion to the house of Judah.</p>

<p>I myself will tear in pieces and go away.</p>

<p>I will carry off, and there will be no one to deliver.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will go and return to my place,</p>

<p>until they acknowledge their offense,</p>

<p>and seek my face.</p>

<p>In their affliction they will seek me earnestly.”</p>

</body>
</html>