<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When I would heal Israel,</p>

<p>then the iniquity of Ephraim is uncovered,</p>

<p>also the wickedness of Samaria;</p>

<p>for they commit falsehood,</p>

<p>and the thief enters in,</p>

<p>and the gang of robbers ravages outside.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They don’t consider in their hearts that I remember all their wickedness.</p>

<p>Now their own deeds have engulfed them.</p>

<p>They are before my face.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They make the king glad with their wickedness,</p>

<p>and the princes with their lies.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They are all adulterers.</p>

<p>They are burning like an oven that the baker stops stirring,</p>

<p>from the kneading of the dough, until it is leavened.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> On the day of our king, the princes made themselves sick with the heat of wine.</p>

<p>He joined his hand with mockers.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For they have prepared their heart like an oven,</p>

<p>while they lie in wait.</p>

<p>Their baker sleeps all the night.</p>

<p>In the morning it burns as a flaming fire.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are all hot as an oven,</p>

<p>and devour their judges.</p>

<p>All their kings have fallen.</p>

<p>There is no one among them who calls to me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim, he mixes himself among the nations.</p>

<p>Ephraim is a pancake not turned over.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Strangers have devoured his strength,</p>

<p>and he doesn’t realize it.</p>

<p>Indeed, gray hairs are here and there on him,</p>

<p>and he doesn’t realize it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The pride of Israel testifies to his face;</p>

<p>yet they haven’t returned to Yahweh their God,</p>

<p>nor sought him, for all this.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Ephraim is like an easily deceived dove, without understanding.</p>

<p>They call to Egypt.</p>

<p>They go to Assyria.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they go, I will spread my net on them.</p>

<p>I will bring them down like the birds of the sky.</p>

<p>I will chastise them, as their congregation has heard.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Woe to them!</p>

<p>For they have wandered from me.</p>

<p>Destruction to them!</p>

<p>For they have trespassed against me.</p>

<p>Though I would redeem them,</p>

<p>yet they have spoken lies against me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They haven’t cried to me with their heart,</p>

<p>but they howl on their beds.</p>

<p>They assemble themselves for grain and new wine.</p>

<p>They turn away from me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though I have taught and strengthened their arms,</p>

<p>yet they plot evil against me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They return, but not to the Most High.</p>

<p>They are like a faulty bow.</p>

<p>Their princes will fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue.</p>

<p>This will be their derision in the land of Egypt.</p>

</body>
</html>