<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling.</p>

<p>He exalted himself in Israel,</p>

<p>but when he became guilty in Baal, he died.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now they sin more and more,</p>

<p>and have made themselves molten images of their silver,</p>

<p>even idols according to their own understanding,</p>

<p>all of them the work of the craftsmen.</p>

<p>They say of them, ‘They offer human sacrifice and kiss the calves.’</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore they will be like the morning mist,</p>

<p>and like the dew that passes away early,</p>

<p>like the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out of the threshing floor,</p>

<p>and like the smoke out of the chimney.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Yet I am Yahweh your God from the land of Egypt;</p>

<p>and you shall acknowledge no god but me,</p>

<p>and besides me there is no savior.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I knew you in the wilderness,</p>

<p>in the land of great drought.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> According to their pasture, so were they filled;</p>

<p>they were filled, and their heart was exalted.</p>

<p>Therefore they have forgotten me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore I am like a lion to them.</p>

<p>Like a leopard, I will lurk by the path.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will meet them like a bear that is bereaved of her cubs,</p>

<p>and will tear the covering of their heart.</p>

<p>There I will devour them like a lioness.</p>

<p>The wild animal will tear them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You are destroyed, Israel, because you are against me,</p>

<p>against your help.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Where is your king now, that he may save you in all your cities?</p>

<p>And your judges, of whom you said, ‘Give me a king and princes?’</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have given you a king in my anger,</p>

<p>and have taken him away in my wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The guilt of Ephraim is stored up.</p>

<p>His sin is stored up.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sorrows of a travailing woman will come on him.</p>

<p>He is an unwise son;</p>

<p>for when it is time, he doesn’t come to the opening of the womb.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will ransom them from the power of Sheol.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>I will redeem them from death!</p>

<p>Death, where are your plagues?</p>

<p>Sheol, where is your destruction?</p>

<p>“Compassion will be hidden from my eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though he is fruitful among his brothers, an east wind will come,</p>

<p>the breath of Yahweh coming up from the wilderness;</p>

<p>and his spring will become dry,</p>

<p>and his fountain will be dried up.</p>

<p>He will plunder the storehouse of treasure.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Samaria will bear her guilt;</p>

<p>for she has rebelled against her God.</p>

<p>They will fall by the sword.</p>

<p>Their infants will be dashed in pieces,</p>

<p>and their pregnant women will be ripped open.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>