<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear Yahweh’s word, you children of Israel;</p>

<p>for Yahweh has a charge against the inhabitants of the land:</p>

<p>“Indeed there is no truth,</p>

<p>nor goodness,</p>

<p>nor knowledge of God in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> There is cursing, lying, murder, stealing, and committing adultery;</p>

<p>they break boundaries, and bloodshed causes bloodshed.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore the land will mourn,</p>

<p>and everyone who dwells therein will waste away.</p>

<p>all living things in her,</p>

<p>even the animals of the field and the birds of the sky;</p>

<p>yes, the fish of the sea also die.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Yet let no man bring a charge, neither let any man accuse; For your people are like those who bring charges against a priest.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You will stumble in the day,</p>

<p>and the prophet will also stumble with you in the night;</p>

<p>and I will destroy your mother.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge.</p>

<p>Because you have rejected knowledge, I will also reject you,</p>

<p>that you may be no priest to me.</p>

<p>Because you have forgotten your God’s law,</p>

<p>I will also forget your children.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me.</p>

<p>I will change their glory into shame.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They feed on the sin of my people,</p>

<p>and set their heart on their iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It will be, like people, like priest;</p>

<p>and I will punish them for their ways,</p>

<p>and will repay them for their deeds.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They will eat, and not have enough.</p>

<p>They will play the prostitute, and will not increase;</p>

<p>because they have abandoned giving to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Prostitution, wine, and new wine take away understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My people consult with their wooden idol,</p>

<p>and answer to a stick of wood.</p>

<p>Indeed the spirit of prostitution has led them astray,</p>

<p>and they have been unfaithful to their God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains,</p>

<p>and burn incense on the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths,</p>

<p>because its shade is good.</p>

<p>Therefore your daughters play the prostitute,</p>

<p>and your brides commit adultery.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will not punish your daughters when they play the prostitute,</p>

<p>nor your brides when they commit adultery;</p>

<p>because the men consort with prostitutes,</p>

<p>and they sacrifice with the shrine prostitutes;</p>

<p>so the people without understanding will come to ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “Though you, Israel, play the prostitute,</p>

<p>yet don’t let Judah offend;</p>

<p>and don’t come to Gilgal,</p>

<p>neither go up to Beth Aven,</p>

<p>nor swear, ‘As Yahweh lives.’</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For Israel has behaved extremely stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer.</p>

<p>Then how will Yahweh feed them like a lamb in a meadow.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Ephraim is joined to idols.</p>

<p>Leave him alone!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their drink has become sour.</p>

<p>They play the prostitute continually.</p>

<p>Her rulers dearly love their shameful way.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The wind has wrapped her up in its wings;</p>

<p>and they shall be disappointed because of their sacrifices.</p>

</body>
</html>