<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Israel, return to Yahweh your God;</p>

<p>for you have fallen because of your sin.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take words with you, and return to Yahweh.</p>

<p>Tell him, “Forgive all our sins,</p>

<p>and accept that which is good:</p>

<p>so we offer our lips like bulls.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Assyria can’t save us.</p>

<p>We won’t ride on horses;</p>

<p>neither will we say any more to the work of our hands, ‘Our gods!’</p>

<p>for in you the fatherless finds mercy.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “I will heal their waywardness.</p>

<p>I will love them freely;</p>

<p>for my anger is turned away from him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will be like the dew to Israel.</p>

<p>He will blossom like the lily,</p>

<p>and send down his roots like Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His branches will spread,</p>

<p>and his beauty will be like the olive tree,</p>

<p>and his fragrance like Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Men will dwell in his shade.</p>

<p>They will revive like the grain,</p>

<p>and blossom like the vine.</p>

<p>Their fragrance will be like the wine of Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim, what have I to do any more with idols?</p>

<p>I answer, and will take care of him.</p>

<p>I am like a green cypress tree;</p>

<p>from me your fruit is found.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who is wise, that he may understand these things?</p>

<p>Who is prudent, that he may know them?</p>

<p>For the ways of Yahweh are right,</p>

<p>and the righteous walk in them;</p>

<p>But the rebellious stumble in them.</p>

</body>
</html>