<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Come, and let us return to Yahweh;</p>

<p>for he has torn us to pieces,</p>

<p>and he will heal us;</p>

<p>he has injured us,</p>

<p>and he will bind up our wounds.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> After two days he will revive us.</p>

<p>On the third day he will raise us up,</p>

<p>and we will live before him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let us acknowledge Yahweh.</p>

<p>Let us press on to know Yahweh.</p>

<p>As surely as the sun rises,</p>

<p>Yahweh will appear.</p>

<p>He will come to us like the rain,</p>

<p>like the spring rain that waters the earth.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Ephraim, what shall I do to you?</p>

<p>Judah, what shall I do to you?</p>

<p>For your love is like a morning cloud,</p>

<p>and like the dew that disappears early.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore I have cut them to pieces with the prophets;</p>

<p>I killed them with the words of my mouth.</p>

<p>Your judgments are like a flash of lightning.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I desire mercy, and not sacrifice;</p>

<p>and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But they, like Adam, have broken the covenant.</p>

<p>They were unfaithful to me, there.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Gilead is a city of those who work iniquity;</p>

<p>it is stained with blood.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As gangs of robbers wait to ambush a man,</p>

<p>so the company of priests murder on the path toward Shechem,</p>

<p>committing shameful crimes.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing.</p>

<p>There is prostitution in Ephraim.</p>

<p>Israel is defiled.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Also, Judah, there is a harvest appointed for you,</p>

<p>when I restore the fortunes of my people.</p>

</body>
</html>