<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “When Israel was a child, then I loved him,</p>

<p>and called my son out of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They called to them, so they went from them.</p>

<p>They sacrificed to the Baals,</p>

<p>and burned incense to engraved images.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yet I taught Ephraim to walk.</p>

<p>I took them by his arms;</p>

<p>but they didn’t know that I healed them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I drew them with cords of a man, with ties of love;</p>

<p>and I was to them like those who lift up the yoke on their necks;</p>

<p>and I bent down to him and I fed him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “They won’t return into the land of Egypt;</p>

<p>but the Assyrian will be their king,</p>

<p>because they refused to repent.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The sword will fall on their cities,</p>

<p>and will destroy the bars of their gates,</p>

<p>and will put an end to their plans.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My people are determined to turn from me.</p>

<p>Though they call to the Most High,</p>

<p>he certainly won’t exalt them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “How can I give you up, Ephraim?</p>

<p>How can I hand you over, Israel?</p>

<p>How can I make you like Admah?</p>

<p>How can I make you like Zeboiim?</p>

<p>My heart is turned within me,</p>

<p>my compassion is aroused.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will not execute the fierceness of my anger.</p>

<p>I will not return to destroy Ephraim:</p>

<p>for I am God, and not man; the Holy One among you;</p>

<p>and I will not come in wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They will walk after Yahweh,</p>

<p>who will roar like a lion;</p>

<p>for he will roar, and the children will come trembling from the west.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They will come trembling like a bird out of Egypt,</p>

<p>and like a dove out of the land of Assyria;</p>

<p>and I will settle them in their houses,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ephraim surrounds me with falsehood,</p>

<p>and the house of Israel with deceit.</p>

<p>Judah still strays from God,</p>

<p>and is unfaithful to the Holy One.</p>

</body>
</html>