<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Israel is a luxuriant vine that produces his fruit.</p>

<p>According to the abundance of his fruit he has multiplied his altars.</p>

<p>As their land has prospered, they have adorned their sacred stones.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Their heart is divided.</p>

<p>Now they will be found guilty.</p>

<p>He will demolish their altars.</p>

<p>He will destroy their sacred stones.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely now they will say, “We have no king; for we don’t fear Yahweh;</p>

<p>and the king, what can he do for us?”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They make promises, swearing falsely in making covenants.</p>

<p>Therefore judgment springs up like poisonous weeds in the furrows of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The inhabitants of Samaria will be in terror for the calves of Beth Aven;</p>

<p>for its people will mourn over it,</p>

<p>Along with its priests who rejoiced over it,</p>

<p>for its glory, because it has departed from it.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> It also will be carried to Assyria for a present to a great king.</p>

<p>Ephraim will receive shame,</p>

<p>and Israel will be ashamed of his own counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Samaria and her king float away,</p>

<p>like a twig on the water.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, will be destroyed.</p>

<p>The thorn and the thistle will come up on their altars.</p>

<p>They will tell the mountains, “Cover us!” and the hills, “Fall on us!”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “Israel, you have sinned from the days of Gibeah.</p>

<p>There they remained.</p>

<p>The battle against the children of iniquity doesn’t overtake them in Gibeah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When it is my desire, I will chastise them;</p>

<p>and the nations will be gathered against them,</p>

<p>when they are bound to their two transgressions.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ephraim is a trained heifer that loves to thresh;</p>

<p>so I will put a yoke on her beautiful neck.</p>

<p>I will set a rider on Ephraim.</p>

<p>Judah will plow.</p>

<p>Jacob will break his clods.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Sow to yourselves in righteousness,</p>

<p>reap according to kindness.</p>

<p>Break up your fallow ground;</p>

<p>for it is time to seek Yahweh,</p>

<p>until he comes and rains righteousness on you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You have plowed wickedness.</p>

<p>You have reaped iniquity.</p>

<p>You have eaten the fruit of lies,</p>

<p>for you trusted in your way, in the multitude of your mighty men.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore a battle roar will arise among your people,</p>

<p>and all your fortresses will be destroyed,</p>

<p>as Shalman destroyed Beth Arbel in the day of battle.</p>

<p>The mother was dashed in pieces with her children.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So Bethel will do to you because of your great wickedness.</p>

<p>At daybreak the king of Israel will be destroyed.</p>

</body>
</html>