<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Ephraim feeds on wind,</p>

<p>and chases the east wind.</p>

<p>He continually multiplies lies and desolation.</p>

<p>They make a covenant with Assyria,</p>

<p>and oil is carried into Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh also has a controversy with Judah,</p>

<p>and will punish Jacob according to his ways;</p>

<p>according to his deeds he will repay him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the womb he took his brother by the heel;</p>

<p>and in his manhood he contended with God.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Indeed, he struggled with the angel, and prevailed;</p>

<p>he wept, and made supplication to him.</p>

<p>He found him at Bethel, and there he spoke with us,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> even Yahweh, the God of Armies;</p>

<p>Yahweh is his name of renown!</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore turn to your God.</p>

<p>Keep kindness and justice,</p>

<p>and wait continually for your God.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A merchant has dishonest scales in his hand.</p>

<p>He loves to defraud.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim said, “Surely I have become rich,</p>

<p>I have found myself wealth.</p>

<p>In all my wealth they won’t find in me any iniquity that is sin.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “But I am Yahweh your God from the land of Egypt.</p>

<p>I will yet again make you dwell in tents,</p>

<p>as in the days of the solemn feast.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have also spoken to the prophets,</p>

<p>and I have multiplied visions;</p>

<p>and by the ministry of the prophets I have used parables.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If Gilead is wicked,</p>

<p>surely they are worthless.</p>

<p>In Gilgal they sacrifice bulls.</p>

<p>Indeed, their altars are like heaps in the furrows of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jacob fled into the country of Aram,</p>

<p>and Israel served to get a wife,</p>

<p>and for a wife he tended flocks and herds.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> By a prophet Yahweh brought Israel up out of Egypt,</p>

<p>and by a prophet he was preserved.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ephraim has bitterly provoked anger.</p>

<p>Therefore his blood will be left on him,</p>

<p>and his Lord<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> will repay his contempt.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>