<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Put the trumpet to your lips!</p>

<p>Something like an eagle is over Yahweh’s house,</p>

<p>because they have broken my covenant,</p>

<p>and rebelled against my law.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They cry to me, ‘My God, we Israel acknowledge you!’</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Israel has cast off that which is good.</p>

<p>The enemy will pursue him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have set up kings, but not by me.</p>

<p>They have made princes, and I didn’t approve.</p>

<p>Of their silver and their gold they have made themselves idols,</p>

<p>that they may be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let Samaria throw out his calf idol!</p>

<p>My anger burns against them!</p>

<p>How long will it be until they are capable of purity?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this is even from Israel!</p>

<p>The workman made it, and it is no God;</p>

<p>indeed, the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For they sow the wind,</p>

<p>and they will reap the whirlwind.</p>

<p>He has no standing grain.</p>

<p>The stalk will yield no head.</p>

<p>If it does yield, strangers will swallow it up.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Israel is swallowed up.</p>

<p>Now they are among the nations like a worthless thing.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For they have gone up to Assyria,</p>

<p>like a wild donkey wandering alone.</p>

<p>Ephraim has hired lovers for himself.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But although they sold themselves among the nations,</p>

<p>I will now gather them;</p>

<p>and they begin to waste away because of the oppression of the king of mighty ones.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning,</p>

<p>they became for him altars for sinning.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I wrote for him the many things of my law;</p>

<p>but they were regarded as a strange thing.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As for the sacrifices of my offerings,</p>

<p>they sacrifice meat and eat it;</p>

<p>But Yahweh doesn’t accept them.</p>

<p>Now he will remember their iniquity,</p>

<p>and punish their sins.</p>

<p>They will return to Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Israel has forgotten his Maker and built palaces;</p>

<p>and Judah has multiplied fortified cities;</p>

<p>but I will send a fire on his cities,</p>

<p>and it will devour its fortresses.”</p>

</body>
</html>