<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Say to your brothers, ‘My people!’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>and to your sisters, ‘My loved one!’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Contend with your mother!</p>

<p>Contend, for she is not my wife,</p>

<p>neither am I her husband;</p>

<p>and let her put away her prostitution from her face,</p>

<p>and her adulteries from between her breasts;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lest I strip her naked,</p>

<p>and make her bare as in the day that she was born,</p>

<p>and make her like a wilderness,</p>

<p>and set her like a dry land,</p>

<p>and kill her with thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Indeed, on her children I will have no mercy;</p>

<p>for they are children of unfaithfulness;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For their mother has played the prostitute.</p>

<p>She who conceived them has done shamefully;</p>

<p>for she said, ‘I will go after my lovers,</p>

<p>who give me my bread and my water,</p>

<p>my wool and my flax,</p>

<p>my oil and my drink.’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> I will hedge up your way with thorns,</p>

<p>and I will build a wall against her,</p>

<p>that she can’t find her way.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> She will follow after her lovers,</p>

<p>but she won’t overtake them;</p>

<p>and she will seek them,</p>

<p>but won’t find them.</p>

<p>Then she will say, ‘I will go and return to my first husband;</p>

<p>for then was it better with me than now.’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For she did not know that I gave her the grain, the new wine, and the oil,</p>

<p>and multiplied to her silver and gold, which they used for Baal.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore I will take back my grain in its time,</p>

<p>and my new wine in its season,</p>

<p>and will pluck away my wool and my flax which should have covered her nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now I will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers,</p>

<p>and no one will deliver her out of my hand.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will also cause all her celebrations to cease:</p>

<p>her feasts, her new moons, her Sabbaths, and all her solemn assemblies.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees,</p>

<p>about which she has said, ‘These are my wages that my lovers have given me;</p>

<p>and I will make them a forest,’</p>

<p>and the animals of the field shall eat them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will visit on her the days of the Baals,</p>

<p>to which she burned incense,</p>

<p>when she decked herself with her earrings and her jewels,</p>

<p>and went after her lovers,</p>

<p>and forgot me,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “Therefore behold, I will allure her,</p>

<p>and bring her into the wilderness,</p>

<p>and speak tenderly to her.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will give her vineyards from there,</p>

<p>and the valley of Achor for a door of hope;</p>

<p>and she will respond there,</p>

<p>as in the days of her youth,</p>

<p>and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It will be in that day,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“that you will call me ‘my husband,’</p>

<p>and no longer call me ‘my master.’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I will take away the names of the Baals out of her mouth,</p>

<p>and they will no longer be mentioned by name.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day I will make a covenant for them with the animals of the field,</p>

<p>and with the birds of the sky,</p>

<p>and with the creeping things of the ground.</p>

<p>I will break the bow, the sword, and the battle out of the land,</p>

<p>and will make them lie down safely.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I will betroth you to me forever.</p>

<p>Yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness, in justice, in loving kindness, and in compassion.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I will even betroth you to me in faithfulness;</p>

<p>and you shall know Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It will happen in that day, I will respond,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“I will respond to the heavens,</p>

<p>and they will respond to the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and the earth will respond to the grain, and the new wine, and the oil;</p>

<p>and they will respond to Jezreel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I will sow her to me in the earth;</p>

<p>and I will have mercy on her who had not obtained mercy;</p>

<p>and I will tell those who were not my people, ‘You are my people;’</p>

<p>and they will say, ‘My God!’”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>‘Ammi’ in Hebrew</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>‘Ruhamah’ in Hebrew</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>