<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> word that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear this, you elders,</p>

<p>And listen, all you inhabitants of the land.</p>

<p>Has this ever happened in your days,</p>

<p>or in the days of your fathers?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Tell your children about it,</p>

<p>and have your children tell their children,</p>

<p>and their children, another generation.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What the swarming locust has left, the great locust has eaten.</p>

<p>What the great locust has left, the grasshopper has eaten.</p>

<p>What the grasshopper has left, the caterpillar has eaten.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wake up, you drunkards, and weep!</p>

<p>Wail, all you drinkers of wine, because of the sweet wine;</p>

<p>for it is cut off from your mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For a nation has come up on my land, strong, and without number.</p>

<p>His teeth are the teeth of a lion,</p>

<p>and he has the fangs of a lioness.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He has laid my vine waste,</p>

<p>and stripped my fig tree.</p>

<p>He has stripped its bark, and thrown it away.</p>

<p>Its branches are made white.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Mourn like a virgin dressed in sackcloth for the husband of her youth! <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The meal offering and the drink offering are cut off from Yahweh’s house.</p>

<p>The priests, Yahweh’s ministers, mourn.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The field is laid waste.</p>

<p>The land mourns, for the grain is destroyed,</p>

<p>The new wine has dried up,</p>

<p>and the oil languishes.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be confounded, you farmers!</p>

<p>Wail, you vineyard keepers;</p>

<p>for the wheat and for the barley;</p>

<p>for the harvest of the field has perished.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The vine has dried up, and the fig tree withered;</p>

<p>the pomegranate tree, the palm tree also, and the apple tree,</p>

<p>even all of the trees of the field are withered;</p>

<p>for joy has withered away from the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Put on sackcloth and mourn, you priests!</p>

<p>Wail, you ministers of the altar.</p>

<p>Come, lie all night in sackcloth, you ministers of my God,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>for the meal offering and the drink offering are withheld from your God’s house.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Sanctify a fast.</p>

<p>Call a solemn assembly.</p>

<p>Gather the elders,</p>

<p>and all the inhabitants of the land, to the house of Yahweh, your God,</p>

<p>and cry to Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Alas for the day!</p>

<p>For the day of Yahweh is at hand,</p>

<p>and it will come as destruction from the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Isn’t the food cut off before our eyes;</p>

<p>joy and gladness from the house of our God?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The seeds rot under their clods.</p>

<p>The granaries are laid desolate.</p>

<p>The barns are broken down, for the grain has withered.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> How the animals groan!</p>

<p>The herds of livestock are perplexed, because they have no pasture.</p>

<p>Yes, the flocks of sheep are made desolate.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yahweh, I cry to you,</p>

<p>For the fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness,</p>

<p>and the flame has burned all the trees of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yes, the animals of the field pant to you,</p>

<p>for the water brooks have dried up,</p>

<p>And the fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>