<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “For, behold, in those days,</p>

<p>and in that time,</p>

<p>when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will gather all nations,</p>

<p>and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat;</p>

<p>and I will execute judgment on them there for my people,</p>

<p>and for my heritage, Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations.</p>

<p>They have divided my land,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and have cast lots for my people,</p>

<p>and have given a boy for a prostitute,</p>

<p>and sold a girl for wine, that they may drink.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Yes, and what are you to me, Tyre, and Sidon,</p>

<p>and all the regions of Philistia?</p>

<p>Will you repay me?</p>

<p>And if you repay me,</p>

<p>I will swiftly and speedily return your repayment on your own head.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because you have taken my silver and my gold,</p>

<p>and have carried my finest treasures into your temples,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and have sold the children of Judah and the children of Jerusalem to the sons of the Greeks,</p>

<p>that you may remove them far from their border.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, I will stir them up out of the place where you have sold them,</p>

<p>and will return your repayment on your own head;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hands of the children of Judah,</p>

<p>and they will sell them to the men of Sheba,</p>

<p>to a faraway nation,</p>

<p>for Yahweh has spoken it.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Proclaim this among the nations:</p>

<p>“Prepare for war!</p>

<p>Stir up the mighty men.</p>

<p>Let all the warriors draw near.</p>

<p>Let them come up. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Beat your plowshares into swords,</p>

<p>and your pruning hooks into spears.</p>

<p>Let the weak say, ‘I am strong.’</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Hurry and come, all you surrounding nations,</p>

<p>and gather yourselves together.”</p>

<p>Cause your mighty ones to come down there, Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Let the nations arouse themselves,</p>

<p>and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat;</p>

<p>for there will I sit to judge all the surrounding nations.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Put in the sickle;</p>

<p>for the harvest is ripe.</p>

<p>Come, tread, for the wine press is full,</p>

<p>the vats overflow, for their wickedness is great.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision!</p>

<p>For the day of Yahweh is near, in the valley of decision.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sun and the moon are darkened,</p>

<p>and the stars withdraw their shining.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh will roar from Zion,</p>

<p>and thunder from Jerusalem;</p>

<p>and the heavens and the earth will shake;</p>

<p>but Yahweh will be a refuge to his people,</p>

<p>and a stronghold to the children of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “So you will know that I am Yahweh, your God,</p>

<p>dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain.</p>

<p>Then Jerusalem will be holy,</p>

<p>and no strangers will pass through her any more.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> It will happen in that day,</p>

<p>that the mountains will drop down sweet wine,</p>

<p>the hills will flow with milk,</p>

<p>all the brooks of Judah will flow with waters,</p>

<p>and a fountain will flow out from Yahweh’s house,</p>

<p>and will water the valley of Shittim.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Egypt will be a desolation,</p>

<p>and Edom will be a desolate wilderness,</p>

<p>for the violence done to the children of Judah,</p>

<p>because they have shed innocent blood in their land.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But Judah will be inhabited forever,</p>

<p>and Jerusalem from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I will cleanse their blood,</p>

<p>that I have not cleansed:</p>

<p>for Yahweh dwells in Zion.”</p>

</body>
</html>