<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blow the trumpet in Zion,</p>

<p>and sound an alarm in my holy mountain!</p>

<p>Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble,</p>

<p>for the day of Yahweh comes,</p>

<p>for it is close at hand:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A day of darkness and gloominess,</p>

<p>a day of clouds and thick darkness.</p>

<p>As the dawn spreading on the mountains,</p>

<p>a great and strong people;</p>

<p>there has never been the like,</p>

<p>neither will there be any more after them,</p>

<p>even to the years of many generations.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A fire devours before them,</p>

<p>and behind them, a flame burns.</p>

<p>The land is as the garden of Eden before them,</p>

<p>and behind them, a desolate wilderness.</p>

<p>Yes, and no one has escaped them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their appearance is as the appearance of horses,</p>

<p>and as horsemen, so do they run.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Like the noise of chariots on the tops of the mountains do they leap,</p>

<p>like the noise of a flame of fire that devours the stubble,</p>

<p>as a strong people set in battle array.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> At their presence the peoples are in anguish.</p>

<p>All faces have grown pale.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They run like mighty men.</p>

<p>They climb the wall like warriors.</p>

<p>They each march in his line, and they don’t swerve off course.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Neither does one jostle another;</p>

<p>they march everyone in his path,</p>

<p>and they burst through the defenses,</p>

<p>and don’t break ranks.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They rush on the city.</p>

<p>They run on the wall.</p>

<p>They climb up into the houses.</p>

<p>They enter in at the windows like thieves.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The earth quakes before them.</p>

<p>The heavens tremble.</p>

<p>The sun and the moon are darkened,</p>

<p>and the stars withdraw their shining.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yahweh thunders his voice before his army;</p>

<p>for his forces are very great;</p>

<p>for he is strong who obeys his command;</p>

<p>for the day of Yahweh is great and very awesome,</p>

<p>and who can endure it?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Yet even now,” says Yahweh, “turn to me with all your heart,</p>

<p>and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Tear your heart, and not your garments,</p>

<p>and turn to Yahweh, your God;</p>

<p>for he is gracious and merciful,</p>

<p>slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness,</p>

<p>and relents from sending calamity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who knows? He may turn and relent,</p>

<p>and leave a blessing behind him,</p>

<p>even a meal offering and a drink offering to Yahweh, your God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blow the trumpet in Zion!</p>

<p>Sanctify a fast.</p>

<p>Call a solemn assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Gather the people.</p>

<p>Sanctify the assembly.</p>

<p>Assemble the elders.</p>

<p>Gather the children, and those who nurse from breasts.</p>

<p>Let the bridegroom go out of his room,</p>

<p>and the bride out of her room.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let the priests, the ministers of Yahweh, weep between the porch and the altar,</p>

<p>and let them say, “Spare your people, Yahweh,</p>

<p>and don’t give your heritage to reproach,</p>

<p>that the nations should rule over them.</p>

<p>Why should they say among the peoples,</p>

<p>‘Where is their God?’”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Yahweh was jealous for his land,</p>

<p>And had pity on his people.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yahweh answered his people,</p>

<p>“Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> I will send you grain, new wine, and oil,</p>

<p>and you will be satisfied with them;</p>

<p>and I will no more make you a reproach among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But I will remove the northern army far away from you,</p>

<p>and will drive it into a barren and desolate land,</p>

<p>its front into the eastern sea,</p>

<p>and its back into the western sea;</p>

<p>and its stench will come up,</p>

<p>and its bad smell will rise.”</p>

<p>Surely he has done great things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Land, don’t be afraid.</p>

<p>Be glad and rejoice, for Yahweh has done great things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Don’t be afraid, you animals of the field;</p>

<p>for the pastures of the wilderness spring up,</p>

<p>for the tree bears its fruit.</p>

<p>The fig tree and the vine yield their strength.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “Be glad then, you children of Zion,</p>

<p>and rejoice in Yahweh, your God;</p>

<p>for he gives you the former rain in just measure,</p>

<p>and he causes the rain to come down for you,</p>

<p>the former rain and the latter rain,</p>

<p>as before.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The threshing floors will be full of wheat,</p>

<p>and the vats will overflow with new wine and oil.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I will restore to you the years that the swarming locust has eaten,</p>

<p>the great locust, the grasshopper, and the caterpillar,</p>

<p>my great army, which I sent among you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> You will have plenty to eat, and be satisfied,</p>

<p>and will praise the name of Yahweh, your God,</p>

<p>who has dealt wondrously with you;</p>

<p>and my people will never again be disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> You will know that I am among Israel,</p>

<p>and that I am Yahweh, your God, and there is no one else;</p>

<p>and my people will never again be disappointed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> “It will happen afterward, that I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh;</p>

<p>and your sons and your daughters will prophesy.</p>

<p>Your old men will dream dreams.</p>

<p>Your young men will see visions.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And also on the servants and on the handmaids in those days,</p>

<p>I will pour out my Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth:</p>

<p>blood, fire, and pillars of smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The sun will be turned into darkness,</p>

<p>and the moon into blood,</p>

<p>before the great and terrible day of Yahweh comes.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It will happen that whoever will call on Yahweh’s name shall be saved;</p>

<p>for in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there will be those who escape,</p>

<p>as Yahweh has said,</p>

<p>and among the remnant, those whom Yahweh calls.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>