<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen to this word, you cows of Bashan, who are on the mountain of Samaria, who oppress the poor, who crush the needy, who tell their husbands, “Bring us drinks!”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The Lord Yahweh has sworn by his holiness that behold,</p>

<p>“The days shall come on you that they will take you away with hooks,</p>

<p>and the last of you with fish hooks.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You will go out at the breaks in the wall,</p>

<p>everyone straight before her;</p>

<p>and you will cast yourselves into Harmon,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “Go to Bethel, and sin;</p>

<p>to Gilgal, and sin more.</p>

<p>Bring your sacrifices every morning,</p>

<p>your tithes every three days,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving of that which is leavened,</p>

<p>and proclaim free will offerings and brag about them:</p>

<p>for this pleases you, you children of Israel,” says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities,</p>

<p>and lack of bread in every town;</p>

<p>yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “I also have withheld the rain from you,</p>

<p>when there were yet three months to the harvest;</p>

<p>and I caused it to rain on one city,</p>

<p>and caused it not to rain on another city.</p>

<p>One place was rained on,</p>

<p>and the piece where it didn’t rain withered.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So two or three cities staggered to one city to drink water,</p>

<p>and were not satisfied:</p>

<p>yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “I struck you with blight and mildew many times in your gardens and your vineyards;</p>

<p>and your fig trees and your olive trees have the swarming locust devoured:</p>

<p>yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “I sent plagues among you like I did Egypt.</p>

<p>I have slain your young men with the sword,</p>

<p>and have carried away your horses;</p>

<p>and I filled your nostrils with the stench of your camp,</p>

<p>yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “I have overthrown some of you,</p>

<p>as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah,</p>

<p>and you were like a burning stick plucked out of the fire;</p>

<p>yet you haven’t returned to me,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “Therefore thus will I do to you, Israel;</p>

<p>because I will do this to you,</p>

<p>prepare to meet your God, Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For, behold, he who forms the mountains,</p>

<p>and creates the wind,</p>

<p>and declares to man what is his thought;</p>

<p>who makes the morning darkness,</p>

<p>and treads on the high places of the earth:</p>

<p>Yahweh, the God of Armies, is his name.”</p>

</body>
</html>