<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“For three transgressions of Moab, yes, for four,</p>

<p>I will not turn away its punishment;</p>

<p>because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> but I will send a fire on Moab,</p>

<p>and it will devour the palaces of Kerioth;</p>

<p>and Moab will die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I will cut off the judge from among them,</p>

<p>and will kill all its princes with him,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“For three transgressions of Judah, yes, for four,</p>

<p>I will not turn away its punishment;</p>

<p>because they have rejected Yahweh’s law,</p>

<p>and have not kept his statutes,</p>

<p>and their lies have led them astray,</p>

<p>after which their fathers walked;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I will send a fire on Judah,</p>

<p>and it will devour the palaces of Jerusalem.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“For three transgressions of Israel, yes, for four,</p>

<p>I will not turn away its punishment;</p>

<p>because they have sold the righteous for silver,</p>

<p>and the needy for a pair of shoes;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They trample on the dust of the earth on the head of the poor,</p>

<p>and deny justice to the oppressed;</p>

<p>and a man and his father use the same maiden, to profane my holy name;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and they lay themselves down beside every altar on clothes taken in pledge;</p>

<p>and in the house of their God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> they drink the wine of those who have been fined.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yet I destroyed the Amorite before them,</p>

<p>whose height was like the height of the cedars,</p>

<p>and he was strong as the oaks;</p>

<p>yet I destroyed his fruit from above,</p>

<p>and his roots from beneath.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt,</p>

<p>and led you forty years in the wilderness,</p>

<p>to possess the land of the Amorite.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I raised up some of your sons for prophets,</p>

<p>and some of your young men for Nazirites.</p>

<p>Isn’t this true,</p>

<p>you children of Israel?” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “But you gave the Nazirites wine to drink,</p>

<p>and commanded the prophets, saying, ‘Don’t prophesy!’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> I will crush you in your place,</p>

<p>as a cart crushes that is full of grain.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Flight will perish from the swift;</p>

<p>and the strong won’t strengthen his force;</p>

<p>neither shall the mighty deliver himself;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> neither shall he stand who handles the bow;</p>

<p>and he who is swift of foot won’t escape;</p>

<p>neither shall he who rides the horse deliver himself;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and he who is courageous among the mighty will flee away naked on that day,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>