<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen to this word which I take up for a lamentation over you, O house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “The virgin of Israel has fallen;</p>

<p>She shall rise no more.</p>

<p>She is cast down on her land;</p>

<p>there is no one to raise her up.”</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>“The city that went out a thousand shall have a hundred left,</p>

<p>and that which went out one hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel.”</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Yahweh says to the house of Israel:</p>

<p>“Seek me, and you will live;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but don’t seek Bethel,</p>

<p>nor enter into Gilgal,</p>

<p>and don’t pass to Beersheba:</p>

<p>for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity,</p>

<p>and Bethel shall come to nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seek Yahweh, and you will live;</p>

<p>lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph,</p>

<p>and it devour, and there be no one to quench it in Bethel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You who turn justice to wormwood,</p>

<p>and cast down righteousness to the earth:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> seek him who made the Pleiades and Orion,</p>

<p>and turns the shadow of death into the morning,</p>

<p>and makes the day dark with night;</p>

<p>who calls for the waters of the sea,</p>

<p>and pours them out on the surface of the earth, Yahweh is his name,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> who brings sudden destruction on the strong,</p>

<p>so that destruction comes on the fortress.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They hate him who reproves in the gate,</p>

<p>and they abhor him who speaks blamelessly.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, because you trample on the poor,</p>

<p>and take taxes from him of wheat:</p>

<p>You have built houses of cut stone,</p>

<p>but you will not dwell in them.</p>

<p>You have planted pleasant vineyards,</p>

<p>but you shall not drink their wine.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I know how many your offenses,</p>

<p>and how great are your sins—</p>

<p>you who afflict the just,</p>

<p>who take a bribe,</p>

<p>and who turn aside the needy in the courts.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore a prudent person keeps silent in such a time,</p>

<p>for it is an evil time.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Seek good, and not evil,</p>

<p>that you may live;</p>

<p>and so Yahweh, the God of Armies, will be with you,</p>

<p>as you say.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hate evil, love good,</p>

<p>and establish justice in the courts.</p>

<p>It may be that Yahweh, the God of Armies, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph.”</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore Yahweh, the God of Armies, the Lord, says:</p>

<p>“Wailing will be in all the wide ways;</p>

<p>and they will say in all the streets, ‘Alas! Alas!’</p>

<p>and they will call the farmer to mourning,</p>

<p>and those who are skillful in lamentation to wailing.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In all vineyards there will be wailing;</p>

<p>for I will pass through the middle of you,” says Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Woe to you who desire the day of Yahweh!</p>

<p>Why do you long for the day of Yahweh?</p>

<p>It is darkness,</p>

<p>and not light.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As if a man fled from a lion,</p>

<p>and a bear met him;</p>

<p>Or he went into the house and leaned his hand on the wall,</p>

<p>and a snake bit him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Won’t the day of Yahweh be darkness, and not light?</p>

<p>Even very dark, and no brightness in it?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I hate, I despise your feasts,</p>

<p>and I can’t stand your solemn assemblies.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yes, though you offer me your burnt offerings and meal offerings,</p>

<p>I will not accept them;</p>

<p>neither will I regard the peace offerings of your fat animals.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Take away from me the noise of your songs!</p>

<p>I will not listen to the music of your harps.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But let justice roll on like rivers,</p>

<p>and righteousness like a mighty stream.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, house of Israel? <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> You also carried the tent of your king and the shrine of your images, the star of your god, which you made for yourselves. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus,” says Yahweh, whose name is the God of Armies.</p>

</body>
</html>