<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus the Lord Yahweh showed me: behold, a basket of summer fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He said, “Amos, what do you see?”</p>

<p>I said, “A basket of summer fruit.”</p>

<p>Then Yahweh said to me,</p>

<p>“The end has come on my people Israel.</p>

<p>I will not again pass by them any more.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The songs of the temple will be wailings in that day,” says the Lord Yahweh.</p>

<p>“The dead bodies will be many. In every place they will throw them out with silence.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Hear this, you who desire to swallow up the needy,</p>

<p>and cause the poor of the land to fail,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Saying, ‘When will the new moon be gone, that we may sell grain?</p>

<p>And the Sabbath, that we may market wheat,</p>

<p>making the ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> small, and the shekel<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> large,</p>

<p>and dealing falsely with balances of deceit;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that we may buy the poor for silver,</p>

<p>and the needy for a pair of shoes,</p>

<p>and sell the sweepings with the wheat?’”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yahweh has sworn by the pride of Jacob,</p>

<p>“Surely I will never forget any of their works.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Won’t the land tremble for this,</p>

<p>and everyone mourn who dwells in it?</p>

<p>Yes, it will rise up wholly like the River;</p>

<p>and it will be stirred up and sink again, like the River of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It will happen in that day,” says the Lord Yahweh,</p>

<p>“that I will cause the sun to go down at noon,</p>

<p>and I will darken the earth in the clear day.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will turn your feasts into mourning,</p>

<p>and all your songs into lamentation;</p>

<p>and I will make you wear sackcloth on all your bodies,</p>

<p>and baldness on every head.</p>

<p>I will make it like the mourning for an only son,</p>

<p>and its end like a bitter day.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, the days come,” says the Lord Yahweh,</p>

<p>“that I will send a famine in the land,</p>

<p>not a famine of bread,</p>

<p>nor a thirst for water,</p>

<p>but of hearing Yahweh’s words.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They will wander from sea to sea,</p>

<p>and from the north even to the east;</p>

<p>they will run back and forth to seek Yahweh’s word,</p>

<p>and will not find it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In that day the beautiful virgins</p>

<p>and the young men will faint for thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Those who swear by the sin of Samaria,</p>

<p>and say, ‘As your god, Dan, lives;’</p>

<p>and, ‘As the way of Beersheba lives;’</p>

<p>they will fall, and never rise up again.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>1 ephah is about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>a normal shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>