<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear this word that Yahweh has spoken against you, children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up out of the land of Egypt, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “I have only chosen you of all the families of the earth.</p>

<p>Therefore I will punish you for all of your sins.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do two walk together,</p>

<p>unless they have agreed?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will a lion roar in the thicket,</p>

<p>when he has no prey?</p>

<p>Does a young lion cry out of his den,</p>

<p>if he has caught nothing?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Can a bird fall in a trap on the earth,</p>

<p>where no snare is set for him?</p>

<p>Does a snare spring up from the ground,</p>

<p>when there is nothing to catch?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Does the trumpet alarm sound in a city,</p>

<p>without the people being afraid?</p>

<p>Does evil happen to a city,</p>

<p>and Yahweh hasn’t done it?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Surely the Lord Yahweh will do nothing,</p>

<p>unless he reveals his secret to his servants the prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The lion has roared.</p>

<p>Who will not fear?</p>

<p>The Lord Yahweh has spoken.</p>

<p>Who can but prophesy?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Proclaim in the palaces at Ashdod,</p>

<p>and in the palaces in the land of Egypt,</p>

<p>and say, “Assemble yourselves on the mountains of Samaria,</p>

<p>and see what unrest is in her,</p>

<p>and what oppression is among them.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Indeed they don’t know to do right,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“Who hoard plunder and loot in their palaces.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore thus says the Lord Yahweh:</p>

<p>“An adversary will overrun the land;</p>

<p>and he will pull down your strongholds,</p>

<p>and your fortresses will be plundered.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“As the shepherd rescues out of the mouth of the lion two legs,</p>

<p>or a piece of an ear,</p>

<p>so shall the children of Israel be rescued who sit in Samaria on the corner of a couch,</p>

<p>and on the silken cushions of a bed.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “Listen, and testify against the house of Jacob,” says the Lord Yahweh, the God of Armies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “For in the day that I visit the transgressions of Israel on him,</p>

<p>I will also visit the altars of Bethel;</p>

<p>and the horns of the altar will be cut off,</p>

<p>and fall to the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will strike the winter house with the summer house;</p>

<p>and the houses of ivory will perish,</p>

<p>and the great houses will have an end,”</p>

<p>says Yahweh.</p>

</body>
</html>