<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He prayed to Yahweh, and said, “Please, Yahweh, wasn’t this what I said when I was still in my own country? Therefore I hurried to flee to Tarshish, for I knew that you are a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness, and you relent of doing harm. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore now, Yahweh, take, I beg you, my life from me; for it is better for me to die than to live.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yahweh said, “Is it right for you to be angry?”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there made himself a booth, and sat under it in the shade, until he might see what would become of the city. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh God prepared a vine, and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head, to deliver him from his discomfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the vine. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But God prepared a worm at dawn the next day, and it chewed on the vine, so that it withered. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When the sun arose, God prepared a sultry east wind; and the sun beat on Jonah’s head, so that he fainted, and requested for himself that he might die, and said, “It is better for me to die than to live.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> God said to Jonah, “Is it right for you to be angry about the vine?”</p>

<p>He said, “I am right to be angry, even to death.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yahweh said, “You have been concerned for the vine, for which you have not labored, neither made it grow; which came up in a night, and perished in a night. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shouldn’t I be concerned for Nineveh, that great city, in which are more than one hundred twenty thousand persons who can’t discern between their right hand and their left hand; and also much livestock?”</p>

</body>
</html>