<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Jonah prayed to Yahweh, his God, out of the fish’s belly. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He said,</p>

<p>“I called because of my affliction to Yahweh.</p>

<p>He answered me.</p>

<p>Out of the belly of Sheol<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> I cried.</p>

<p>You heard my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For you threw me into the depths,</p>

<p>in the heart of the seas.</p>

<p>The flood was all around me.</p>

<p>All your waves and your billows passed over me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I said, ‘I have been banished from your sight;</p>

<p>yet I will look again toward your holy temple.’</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The waters surrounded me,</p>

<p>even to the soul.</p>

<p>The deep was around me.</p>

<p>The weeds were wrapped around my head.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I went down to the bottoms of the mountains.</p>

<p>The earth barred me in forever:</p>

<p>yet have you brought up my life from the pit, Yahweh my God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “When my soul fainted within me, I remembered Yahweh.</p>

<p>My prayer came in to you, into your holy temple.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Those who regard lying vanities forsake their own mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But I will sacrifice to you with the voice of thanksgiving.</p>

<p>I will pay that which I have vowed.</p>

<p>Salvation belongs to Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yahweh spoke to the fish, and it vomited out Jonah on the dry land.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Sheol is the place of the dead.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>