<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Misery is mine!</p>

<p>Indeed, I am like one who gathers the summer fruits, as gleanings of the vineyard:</p>

<p>There is no cluster of grapes to eat.</p>

<p>My soul desires to eat the early fig.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The godly man has perished out of the earth,</p>

<p>and there is no one upright among men.</p>

<p>They all lie in wait for blood;</p>

<p>every man hunts his brother with a net.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Their hands are on that which is evil to do it diligently.</p>

<p>The ruler and judge ask for a bribe;</p>

<p>and the powerful man dictates the evil desire of his soul.</p>

<p>Thus they conspire together.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The best of them is like a brier.</p>

<p>The most upright is worse than a thorn hedge.</p>

<p>The day of your watchmen,</p>

<p>even your visitation, has come;</p>

<p>now is the time of their confusion.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Don’t trust in a neighbor.</p>

<p>Don’t put confidence in a friend.</p>

<p>With the woman lying in your embrace,</p>

<p>be careful of the words of your mouth!</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the son dishonors the father,</p>

<p>the daughter rises up against her mother,</p>

<p>the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law;</p>

<p>a man’s enemies are the men of his own house.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But as for me, I will look to Yahweh.</p>

<p>I will wait for the God of my salvation.</p>

<p>My God will hear me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Don’t rejoice against me, my enemy.</p>

<p>When I fall, I will arise.</p>

<p>When I sit in darkness, Yahweh will be a light to me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will bear the indignation of Yahweh,</p>

<p>because I have sinned against him,</p>

<p>until he pleads my case, and executes judgment for me.</p>

<p>He will bring me out to the light.</p>

<p>I will see his righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then my enemy will see it,</p>

<p>and shame will cover her who said to me,</p>

<p>where is Yahweh your God?</p>

<p>Then my enemy will see me and will cover her shame.</p>

<p>Now she will be trodden down like the mire of the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A day to build your walls—</p>

<p>In that day, he will extend your boundary.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In that day they will come to you from Assyria and the cities of Egypt,</p>

<p>and from Egypt even to the River,</p>

<p>and from sea to sea,</p>

<p>and mountain to mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet the land will be desolate because of those who dwell therein,</p>

<p>for the fruit of their doings.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Shepherd your people with your staff,</p>

<p>the flock of your heritage,</p>

<p>who dwell by themselves in a forest,</p>

<p>in the middle of fertile pasture land, let them feed;</p>

<p>in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “As in the days of your coming out of the land of Egypt,</p>

<p>I will show them marvelous things.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The nations will see and be ashamed of all their might.</p>

<p>They will lay their hand on their mouth.</p>

<p>Their ears will be deaf.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They will lick the dust like a serpent.</p>

<p>Like crawling things of the earth they shall come trembling out of their dens.</p>

<p>They will come with fear to Yahweh our God,</p>

<p>and will be afraid because of you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Who is a God like you, who pardons iniquity,</p>

<p>and passes over the disobedience of the remnant of his heritage?</p>

<p>He doesn’t retain his anger forever,</p>

<p>because he delights in loving kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will again have compassion on us.</p>

<p>He will tread our iniquities under foot;</p>

<p>and you will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You will give truth to Jacob,</p>

<p>and mercy to Abraham,</p>

<p>as you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old.</p>

</body>
</html>