<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But in the latter days,</p>

<p>it will happen that the mountain of Yahweh’s temple will be established on the top of the mountains,</p>

<p>and it will be exalted above the hills;</p>

<p>and peoples will stream to it.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Many nations will go and say,</p>

<p>“Come, and let us go up to the mountain of Yahweh,</p>

<p>and to the house of the God of Jacob;</p>

<p>and he will teach us of his ways,</p>

<p>and we will walk in his paths.”</p>

<p>For the law will go out of Zion,</p>

<p>and Yahweh’s word from Jerusalem;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and he will judge between many peoples,</p>

<p>and will decide concerning strong nations afar off.</p>

<p>They will beat their swords into plowshares,</p>

<p>and their spears into pruning hooks.</p>

<p>Nation will not lift up sword against nation,</p>

<p>neither will they learn war any more.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But they will sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree;</p>

<p>and no one will make them afraid:</p>

<p>For the mouth of Yahweh of Armies has spoken. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Indeed all the nations may walk in the name of their gods;</p>

<p>but we will walk in the name of Yahweh our God forever and ever.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “In that day,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“I will assemble that which is lame,</p>

<p>and I will gather that which is driven away,</p>

<p>and that which I have afflicted;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and I will make that which was lame a remnant,</p>

<p>and that which was cast far off a strong nation:</p>

<p>and Yahweh will reign over them on Mount Zion from then on, even forever.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You, tower of the flock, the hill of the daughter of Zion,</p>

<p>to you it will come,</p>

<p>yes, the former dominion will come,</p>

<p>the kingdom of the daughter of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now why do you cry out aloud?</p>

<p>Is there no king in you?</p>

<p>Has your counselor perished,</p>

<p>that pains have taken hold of you as of a woman in travail?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Be in pain, and labor to give birth, daughter of Zion,</p>

<p>like a woman in travail;</p>

<p>for now you will go out of the city,</p>

<p>and will dwell in the field,</p>

<p>and will come even to Babylon.</p>

<p>There you will be rescued.</p>

<p>There Yahweh will redeem you from the hand of your enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now many nations have assembled against you, that say,</p>

<p>“Let her be defiled,</p>

<p>and let our eye gloat over Zion.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But they don’t know the thoughts of Yahweh,</p>

<p>neither do they understand his counsel;</p>

<p>for he has gathered them like the sheaves to the threshing floor.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Arise and thresh, daughter of Zion;</p>

<p>for I will make your horn iron,</p>

<p>and I will make your hoofs brass;</p>

<p>and you will beat in pieces many peoples:</p>

<p>and I will devote their gain to Yahweh,</p>

<p>and their substance to the Lord of the whole earth.</p>

</body>
</html>