<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to those who devise iniquity</p>

<p>and work evil on their beds!</p>

<p>When the morning is light, they practice it,</p>

<p>because it is in the power of their hand.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They covet fields, and seize them;</p>

<p>and houses, and take them away:</p>

<p>and they oppress a man and his house,</p>

<p>even a man and his heritage.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“Behold, I am planning against these people a disaster,</p>

<p>from which you will not remove your necks,</p>

<p>neither will you walk haughtily;</p>

<p>for it is an evil time.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In that day they will take up a parable against you,</p>

<p>and lament with a doleful lamentation, saying,</p>

<p>‘We are utterly ruined!</p>

<p>My people’s possession is divided up.</p>

<p>Indeed he takes it from me and assigns our fields to traitors!’”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore you will have no one who divides the land by lot in Yahweh’s assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Don’t prophesy!”</p>

<p>They prophesy.</p>

<p>“Don’t prophesy about these things.</p>

<p>Disgrace won’t overtake us.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Shall it be said, O house of Jacob:</p>

<p>“Is Yahweh’s Spirit angry?</p>

<p>Are these his doings?</p>

<p>Don’t my words do good to him who walks blamelessly?”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But lately my people have risen up as an enemy.</p>

<p>You strip the robe and clothing from those who pass by without a care, returning from battle.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You drive the women of my people out from their pleasant houses;</p>

<p>from their young children you take away my blessing forever.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Arise, and depart!</p>

<p>For this is not your resting place,</p>

<p>because of uncleanness that destroys,</p>

<p>even with a grievous destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If a man walking in a spirit of falsehood lies:</p>

<p>“I will prophesy to you of wine and of strong drink”;</p>

<p>he would be the prophet of this people.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will surely assemble, Jacob, all of you;</p>

<p>I will surely gather the remnant of Israel;</p>

<p>I will put them together as the sheep of Bozrah,</p>

<p>as a flock in the middle of their pasture;</p>

<p>they will swarm with people.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He who breaks open the way goes up before them.</p>

<p>They break through the gate, and go out.</p>

<p>And their king passes on before them,</p>

<p>with Yahweh at their head.</p>

</body>
</html>