<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now you shall gather yourself in troops,</p>

<p>daughter of troops.</p>

<p>He has laid siege against us.</p>

<p>They will strike the judge of Israel with a rod on the cheek.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah,</p>

<p>being small among the clans of Judah,</p>

<p>out of you one will come out to me that is to be ruler in Israel;</p>

<p>whose goings out are from of old, from ancient times.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore he will abandon them until the time that she who is in labor gives birth.</p>

<p>Then the rest of his brothers will return to the children of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall stand, and shall shepherd in the strength of Yahweh,</p>

<p>in the majesty of the name of Yahweh his God:</p>

<p>and they will live, for then he will be great to the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He will be our peace when Assyria invades our land,</p>

<p>and when he marches through our fortresses,</p>

<p>then we will raise against him seven shepherds,</p>

<p>and eight leaders of men.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They will rule the land of Assyria with the sword,</p>

<p>and the land of Nimrod in its gates.</p>

<p>He will deliver us from the Assyrian,</p>

<p>when he invades our land,</p>

<p>and when he marches within our border.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The remnant of Jacob will be among many peoples,</p>

<p>like dew from Yahweh,</p>

<p>like showers on the grass,</p>

<p>that don’t wait for man,</p>

<p>nor wait for the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The remnant of Jacob will be among the nations,</p>

<p>among many peoples,</p>

<p>like a lion among the animals of the forest,</p>

<p>like a young lion among the flocks of sheep;</p>

<p>who, if he goes through, treads down and tears in pieces,</p>

<p>and there is no one to deliver.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let your hand be lifted up above your adversaries,</p>

<p>and let all of your enemies be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “It will happen in that day”, says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“that I will cut off your horses out from among you,</p>

<p>and will destroy your chariots.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will cut off the cities of your land,</p>

<p>and will tear down all your strongholds.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will destroy witchcraft from your hand;</p>

<p>and you shall have no soothsayers.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will cut off your engraved images and your pillars out from among you;</p>

<p>and you shall no more worship the work of your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will uproot your Asherah poles out from among you;</p>

<p>and I will destroy your cities.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will execute vengeance in anger,</p>

<p>and wrath on the nations that didn’t listen.”</p>

</body>
</html>