<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I said,</p>

<p>“Please listen, you heads of Jacob,</p>

<p>and rulers of the house of Israel:</p>

<p>Isn’t it for you to know justice?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You who hate the good,</p>

<p>and love the evil;</p>

<p>who tear off their skin,</p>

<p>and their flesh from off their bones;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> who also eat the flesh of my people,</p>

<p>and flay their skin from off them,</p>

<p>and break their bones,</p>

<p>and chop them in pieces, as for the pot,</p>

<p>and as meat within the cauldron.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then they will cry to Yahweh,</p>

<p>but he will not answer them.</p>

<p>Yes, he will hide his face from them at that time,</p>

<p>because they made their deeds evil.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yahweh says concerning the prophets who lead my people astray; for those who feed their teeth, they proclaim, “Peace!” and whoever doesn’t provide for their mouths, they prepare war against him:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Therefore night is over you, with no vision,</p>

<p>and it is dark to you, that you may not divine;</p>

<p>and the sun will go down on the prophets,</p>

<p>and the day will be black over them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The seers shall be disappointed,</p>

<p>and the diviners confounded.</p>

<p>Yes, they shall all cover their lips;</p>

<p>for there is no answer from God.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But as for me, I am full of power by Yahweh’s Spirit,</p>

<p>and of judgment, and of might,</p>

<p>to declare to Jacob his disobedience,</p>

<p>and to Israel his sin.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Please listen to this, you heads of the house of Jacob,</p>

<p>and rulers of the house of Israel,</p>

<p>who abhor justice,</p>

<p>and pervert all equity.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They build up Zion with blood,</p>

<p>and Jerusalem with iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Her leaders judge for bribes,</p>

<p>and her priests teach for a price,</p>

<p>and her prophets of it tell fortunes for money:</p>

<p>yet they lean on Yahweh, and say,</p>

<p>“Isn’t Yahweh among us?</p>

<p>No disaster will come on us.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore Zion for your sake will be plowed like a field,</p>

<p>and Jerusalem will become heaps of rubble,</p>

<p>and the mountain of the temple like the high places of a forest.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>