<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yahweh’s<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> word that came to Micah the Morashtite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, you peoples, all of you.</p>

<p>Listen, O earth, and all that is therein:</p>

<p>and let the Lord<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> Yahweh be witness against you,</p>

<p>the Lord from his holy temple.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> Yahweh comes out of his place,</p>

<p>and will come down and tread on the high places of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The mountains melt under him,</p>

<p>and the valleys split apart,</p>

<p>like wax before the fire,</p>

<p>like waters that are poured down a steep place.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> “All this is for the disobedience of Jacob,</p>

<p>and for the sins of the house of Israel.</p>

<p>What is the disobedience of Jacob?</p>

<p>Isn’t it Samaria?</p>

<p>And what are the high places of Judah?</p>

<p>Aren’t they Jerusalem?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore I will make Samaria like a rubble heap of the field,</p>

<p>like places for planting vineyards;</p>

<p>and I will pour down its stones into the valley,</p>

<p>and I will uncover its foundations.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All her idols will be beaten to pieces,</p>

<p>and all her temple gifts will be burned with fire,</p>

<p>and all her images I will destroy;</p>

<p>for of the hire of a prostitute has she gathered them,</p>

<p>and to the hire of a prostitute shall they return.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For this I will lament and wail;</p>

<p>I will go stripped and naked;</p>

<p>I will howl like the jackals,</p>

<p>and moan like the daughters of owls.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For her wounds are incurable;</p>

<p>for it has come even to Judah.</p>

<p>It reaches to the gate of my people,</p>

<p>even to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Don’t tell it in Gath.</p>

<p>Don’t weep at all.</p>

<p>At Beth Ophrah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> I have rolled myself in the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Pass on, inhabitant of Shaphir, in nakedness and shame.</p>

<p>The inhabitant of Zaanan won’t come out.</p>

<p>The wailing of Beth Ezel will take from you his protection.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the inhabitant of Maroth waits anxiously for good,</p>

<p>because evil has come down from Yahweh to the gate of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Harness the chariot to the swift steed, inhabitant of Lachish.</p>

<p>She was the beginning of sin to the daughter of Zion;</p>

<p>For the transgressions of Israel were found in you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore you will give a parting gift to Moresheth Gath.</p>

<p>The houses of Achzib will be a deceitful thing to the kings of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will yet bring to you, inhabitant of Mareshah.</p>

<p>He who is the glory of Israel will come to Adullam.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Shave your heads,</p>

<p>and cut off your hair for the children of your delight.</p>

<p>Enlarge your baldness like the vulture;</p>

<p>for they have gone into captivity from you!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Yahweh” is God’s proper Name, sometimes rendered “LORD” (all caps) in other translations.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>“Behold”, from “הִנֵּה”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Beth Ophrah means literally “House of Dust.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>