<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen now to what Yahweh says:</p>

<p>“Arise, plead your case before the mountains,</p>

<p>and let the hills hear what you have to say.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, you mountains, Yahweh’s controversy,</p>

<p>and you enduring foundations of the earth;</p>

<p>for Yahweh has a controversy with his people,</p>

<p>and he will contend with Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My people, what have I done to you?</p>

<p>How have I burdened you?</p>

<p>Answer me!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For I brought you up out of the land of Egypt,</p>

<p>and redeemed you out of the house of bondage.</p>

<p>I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My people, remember now what Balak king of Moab devised,</p>

<p>and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim to Gilgal,</p>

<p>that you may know the righteous acts of Yahweh.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> How shall I come before Yahweh,</p>

<p>and bow myself before the exalted God?</p>

<p>Shall I come before him with burnt offerings,</p>

<p>with calves a year old?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will Yahweh be pleased with thousands of rams?</p>

<p>With tens of thousands of rivers of oil?</p>

<p>Shall I give my firstborn for my disobedience?</p>

<p>The fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He has shown you, O man, what is good.</p>

<p>What does Yahweh require of you, but to act justly,</p>

<p>to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yahweh’s voice calls to the city,</p>

<p>and wisdom sees your name:</p>

<p>“Listen to the rod,</p>

<p>and he who appointed it.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked,</p>

<p>and a short ephah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> that is accursed?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall I be pure with dishonest scales,</p>

<p>and with a bag of deceitful weights?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Her rich men are full of violence,</p>

<p>her inhabitants speak lies,</p>

<p>and their tongue is deceitful in their speech.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore I also have struck you with a grievous wound.</p>

<p>I have made you desolate because of your sins.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You shall eat, but not be satisfied.</p>

<p>Your humiliation will be within you.</p>

<p>You will store up, but not save;</p>

<p>and that which you save I will give up to the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You will sow, but won’t reap.</p>

<p>You will tread the olives, but won’t anoint yourself with oil;</p>

<p>and crush grapes, but won’t drink the wine.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the statutes of Omri are kept,</p>

<p>and all the works of Ahab’s house.</p>

<p>You walk in their counsels,</p>

<p>that I may make you a ruin,</p>

<p>and her inhabitants a hissing;</p>

<p>And you will bear the reproach of my people.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>An ephah is a measure of volume (about 22 liters or about 2/3 of a bushel), and a short ephah is made smaller than a full ephah for the purpose of cheating customers.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>