<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Habakkuk 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Habakkuk 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A prayer of Habakkuk, the prophet, set to victorious music.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh, I have heard of your fame.</p>

<p>I stand in awe of your deeds, Yahweh.</p>

<p>Renew your work in the middle of the years.</p>

<p>In the middle of the years make it known.</p>

<p>In wrath, you remember mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God came from Teman,</p>

<p>the Holy One from Mount Paran. Selah.</p>

<p>His glory covered the heavens,</p>

<p>and his praise filled the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His splendor is like the sunrise.</p>

<p>Rays shine from his hand, where his power is hidden.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Plague went before him,</p>

<p>and pestilence followed his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He stood, and shook the earth.</p>

<p>He looked, and made the nations tremble.</p>

<p>The ancient mountains were crumbled.</p>

<p>The age-old hills collapsed.</p>

<p>His ways are eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction.</p>

<p>The dwellings of the land of Midian trembled.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Was Yahweh displeased with the rivers?</p>

<p>Was your anger against the rivers,</p>

<p>or your wrath against the sea,</p>

<p>that you rode on your horses,</p>

<p>on your chariots of salvation?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You uncovered your bow.</p>

<p>You called for your sworn arrows. Selah.</p>

<p>You split the earth with rivers.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The mountains saw you, and were afraid.</p>

<p>The storm of waters passed by.</p>

<p>The deep roared and lifted up its hands on high.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The sun and moon stood still in the sky,</p>

<p>at the light of your arrows as they went,</p>

<p>at the shining of your glittering spear.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You marched through the land in wrath.</p>

<p>You threshed the nations in anger.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You went out for the salvation of your people,</p>

<p>for the salvation of your anointed.</p>

<p>You crushed the head of the land of wickedness.</p>

<p>You stripped them head to foot. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You pierced the heads of his warriors with their own spears.</p>

<p>They came as a whirlwind to scatter me,</p>

<p>gloating as if to devour the wretched in secret.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You trampled the sea with your horses,</p>

<p>churning mighty waters.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I heard, and my body trembled.</p>

<p>My lips quivered at the voice.</p>

<p>Rottenness enters into my bones, and I tremble in my place,</p>

<p>because I must wait quietly for the day of trouble,</p>

<p>for the coming up of the people who invade us.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For though the fig tree doesn’t flourish,</p>

<p>nor fruit be in the vines;</p>

<p>the labor of the olive fails,</p>

<p>the fields yield no food;</p>

<p>the flocks are cut off from the fold,</p>

<p>and there is no herd in the stalls:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> yet I will rejoice in Yahweh.</p>

<p>I will be joyful in the God of my salvation!</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yahweh, the Lord,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is my strength.</p>

<p>He makes my feet like deer’s feet,</p>

<p>and enables me to go in high places.</p>

<p>For the music director, on my stringed instruments.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word translated “Lord” is “Adonai.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>