<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Haggai 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Haggai 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the seventh month, in the twenty-first day of the month, Yahweh’s word came by Haggai the prophet, saying, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Speak now to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying, <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> ‘Who is left among you who saw this house in its former glory? How do you see it now? Isn’t it in your eyes as nothing? <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet now be strong, Zerubbabel,’ says Yahweh. ‘Be strong, Joshua, son of Jehozadak, the high priest. Be strong, all you people of the land,’ says Yahweh, ‘and work, for I am with you,’ says Yahweh of Armies. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> This is the word that I covenanted with you when you came out of Egypt, and my Spirit lived among you. ‘Don’t be afraid.’ <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this is what Yahweh of Armies says: ‘Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the dry land; <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and I will shake all nations. The precious things of all nations will come, and I will fill this house with glory, says Yahweh of Armies. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The silver is mine, and the gold is mine,’ says Yahweh of Armies. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> ‘The latter glory of this house will be greater than the former,’ says Yahweh of Armies; ‘and in this place will I give peace,’ says Yahweh of Armies.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, Yahweh’s word came by Haggai the prophet, saying, <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Yahweh of Armies says: Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying, <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> ‘If someone carries holy meat in the fold of his garment, and with his fold touches bread, stew, wine, oil, or any food, will it become holy?’”</p>

<p>The priests answered, “No.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then Haggai said, “If one who is unclean by reason of a dead body touch any of these, will it be unclean?”</p>

<p>The priests answered, “It will be unclean.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then Haggai answered, “‘So is this people, and so is this nation before me,’ says Yahweh; ‘and so is every work of their hands. That which they offer there is unclean. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now, please consider from this day and backward, before a stone was laid on a stone in Yahweh’s temple. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Through all that time, when one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were only ten. When one came to the wine vat to draw out fifty, there were only twenty. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I struck you with blight, mildew, and hail in all the work of your hands; yet you didn’t turn to me,’ says Yahweh. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> ‘Consider, please, from this day and backward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, since the day that the foundation of Yahweh’s temple was laid, consider it. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Is the seed yet in the barn? Yes, the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree haven’t produced. From today I will bless you.’”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yahweh’s word came the second time to Haggai in the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying, <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, ‘I will shake the heavens and the earth. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms. I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations. I will overthrow the chariots, and those who ride in them. The horses and their riders will come down, everyone by the sword of his brother. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day, says Yahweh of Armies, will I take you, Zerubbabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel,’ says Yahweh, ‘and will make you as a signet, for I have chosen you,’ says Yahweh of Armies.”</p>

</body>
</html>