<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Again I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and behold, four chariots came out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the first chariot were red horses; in the second chariot black horses; <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot dappled horses, all of them powerful. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then I asked the angel who talked with me, “What are these, my lord?”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The angel answered me, “These are the four winds of the sky, which go out from standing before the Lord of all the earth. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The one with the black horses goes out toward the north country; and the white went out after them; and the dappled went out toward the south country.” <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The strong went out, and sought to go that they might walk back and forth through the earth: and he said, “Go around and through the earth!” So they walked back and forth through the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then he called to me, and spoke to me, saying, “Behold, those who go toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yahweh’s word came to me, saying, <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> “Take of them of the captivity, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah; and come the same day, and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, where they have come from Babylon. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yes, take silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them on the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest; <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and speak to him, saying, ‘Yahweh of Armies says, “Behold, the man whose name is the Branch: and he shall grow up out of his place; and he shall build Yahweh’s temple; <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> even he shall build Yahweh’s temple; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule on his throne; and he shall be a priest on his throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in Yahweh’s temple. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Those who are far off shall come and build in Yahweh’s temple; and you shall know that Yahweh of Armies has sent me to you. This will happen, if you will diligently obey Yahweh your God’s voice.”’”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hebrew word rendered “God” is “אֱלֹהִ֑ים” (Elohim).</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>