<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “In that day there will be a spring opened to David’s house and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and for uncleanness. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It will come to pass in that day, says Yahweh of Armies, that I will cut off the names of the idols out of the land, and they will be remembered no more. I will also cause the prophets and the spirit of impurity to pass out of the land. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> It will happen that, when anyone still prophesies, then his father and his mother who bore him will tell him, ‘You must die, because you speak lies in Yahweh’s name;’ and his father and his mother who bore him will stab him when he prophesies. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> It will happen in that day, that the prophets will each be ashamed of his vision, when he prophesies; neither will they wear a hairy mantle to deceive: <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but he will say, ‘I am no prophet, I am a tiller of the ground; for I have been made a bondservant from my youth.’ <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> One will say to him, ‘What are these wounds between your arms?’ Then he will answer, ‘Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends.’</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Awake, sword, against my shepherd,</p>

<p>and against the man who is close to me,” says Yahweh of Armies.</p>

<p>“Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered;</p>

<p>and I will turn my hand against the little ones.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It shall happen that in all the land,” says Yahweh,</p>

<p>“two parts in it will be cut off and die;</p>

<p>but the third will be left in it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will bring the third part into the fire,</p>

<p>and will refine them as silver is refined,</p>

<p>and will test them like gold is tested.</p>

<p>They will call on my name, and I will hear them.</p>

<p>I will say, ‘It is my people;’</p>

<p>and they will say, ‘Yahweh is my God.’”</p>

</body>
</html>