<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He showed me Joshua the high priest standing before Yahweh’s angel, and Satan standing at his right hand to be his adversary. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yahweh said to Satan, “Yahweh rebuke you, Satan! Yes, Yahweh who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you! Isn’t this a burning stick plucked out of the fire?”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments, and was standing before the angel. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He answered and spoke to those who stood before him, saying, “Take the filthy garments off of him.” To him he said, “Behold, I have caused your iniquity to pass from you, and I will clothe you with rich clothing.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I said, “Let them set a clean turban on his head.”</p>

<p>So they set a clean turban on his head, and clothed him; and Yahweh’s angel was standing by. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yahweh’s angel protested to Joshua, saying, <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “Yahweh of Armies says: ‘If you will walk in my ways, and if you will follow my instructions, then you also shall judge my house, and shall also keep my courts, and I will give you a place of access among these who stand by. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hear now, Joshua the high priest, you and your fellows who sit before you; for they are men who are a sign: for, behold, I will bring out my servant, the Branch. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, behold, the stone that I have set before Joshua; on one stone are seven eyes: behold, I will engrave its engraving,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In that day,’ says Yahweh of Armies, ‘you will invite every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree.’”</p>

</body>
</html>