<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Ask of Yahweh rain in the spring time,</p>

<p>Yahweh who makes storm clouds,</p>

<p>and he gives rain showers to everyone for the plants in the field.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the teraphim<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> have spoken vanity,</p>

<p>and the diviners have seen a lie;</p>

<p>and they have told false dreams.</p>

<p>They comfort in vain.</p>

<p>Therefore they go their way like sheep.</p>

<p>They are oppressed, because there is no shepherd.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My anger is kindled against the shepherds,</p>

<p>and I will punish the male goats;</p>

<p>For Yahweh of Armies has visited his flock, the house of Judah,</p>

<p>and will make them as his majestic horse in the battle.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> From him will come the cornerstone,</p>

<p>from him the nail,</p>

<p>from him the battle bow,</p>

<p>from him every ruler together.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They shall be as mighty men,</p>

<p>treading down muddy streets in the battle;</p>

<p>and they shall fight, because Yahweh is with them;</p>

<p>and the riders on horses will be confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “I will strengthen the house of Judah,</p>

<p>and I will save the house of Joseph,</p>

<p>and I will bring them back;</p>

<p>for I have mercy on them;</p>

<p>and they will be as though I had not cast them off:</p>

<p>for I am Yahweh their God, and I will hear them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ephraim will be like a mighty man,</p>

<p>and their heart will rejoice as through wine;</p>

<p>yes, their children will see it, and rejoice.</p>

<p>Their heart will be glad in Yahweh.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will signal for them, and gather them;</p>

<p>for I have redeemed them;</p>

<p>and they will increase as they have increased.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will sow them among the peoples;</p>

<p>and they will remember me in far countries;</p>

<p>and they will live with their children, and will return.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will bring them again also out of the land of Egypt,</p>

<p>and gather them out of Assyria;</p>

<p>and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon;</p>

<p>and there won’t be room enough for them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He will pass through the sea of affliction,</p>

<p>and will strike the waves in the sea,</p>

<p>and all the depths of the Nile will dry up;</p>

<p>and the pride of Assyria will be brought down,</p>

<p>and the scepter of Egypt will depart.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will strengthen them in Yahweh;</p>

<p>and they will walk up and down in his name,” says Yahweh.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>teraphim were household idols that may have been associated with inheritance rights to the household property.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>