<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I lifted up my eyes, and saw, and behold, a man with a measuring line in his hand. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then I asked, “Where are you going?”</p>

<p>He said to me, “To measure Jerusalem, to see what is its width and what is its length.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, the angel who talked with me went out, and another angel went out to meet him, <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and said to him, “Run, speak to this young man, saying, ‘Jerusalem will be inhabited as villages without walls, because of the multitude of men and livestock in it. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I,’ says Yahweh, ‘will be to her a wall of fire around it, and I will be the glory in the middle of her. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Come! Come! Flee from the land of the north,’ says Yahweh; ‘for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the sky,’ says Yahweh. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> ‘Come, Zion! Escape, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon.’ <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Yahweh of Armies says: ‘For honor he has sent me to the nations which plundered you; for he who touches you touches the apple of his eye. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, behold, I will shake my hand over them, and they will be a plunder to those who served them; and you will know that Yahweh of Armies has sent me. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Sing and rejoice, daughter of Zion; for, behold, I come, and I will dwell within you,’ says Yahweh. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Many nations shall join themselves to Yahweh in that day, and shall be my people; and I will dwell among you, and you shall know that Yahweh of Armies has sent me to you. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yahweh will inherit Judah as his portion in the holy land, and will again choose Jerusalem. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be silent, all flesh, before Yahweh; for he has roused himself from his holy habitation!”</p>

</body>
</html>