<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A revelation.</p>

<p>Yahweh’s word is against the land of Hadrach,</p>

<p>and will rest upon Damascus;</p>

<p>for the eye of man</p>

<p>and of all the tribes of Israel is toward Yahweh;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and Hamath, also, which borders on it;</p>

<p>Tyre and Sidon, because they are very wise.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Tyre built herself a stronghold,</p>

<p>and heaped up silver like the dust,</p>

<p>and fine gold like the mire of the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, the Lord will dispossess her,</p>

<p>and he will strike her power in the sea;</p>

<p>and she will be devoured with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ashkelon will see it, and fear;</p>

<p>Gaza also, and will writhe in agony;</p>

<p>as will Ekron, for her expectation will be disappointed;</p>

<p>and the king will perish from Gaza,</p>

<p>and Ashkelon will not be inhabited.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Foreigners will dwell in Ashdod,</p>

<p>and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will take away his blood out of his mouth,</p>

<p>and his abominations from between his teeth;</p>

<p>and he also will be a remnant for our God;</p>

<p>and he will be as a chieftain in Judah,</p>

<p>and Ekron as a Jebusite.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will encamp around my house against the army,</p>

<p>that no one pass through or return;</p>

<p>and no oppressor will pass through them any more:</p>

<p>for now I have seen with my eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Rejoice greatly, daughter of Zion!</p>

<p>Shout, daughter of Jerusalem!</p>

<p>Behold, your King comes to you!</p>

<p>He is righteous, and having salvation;</p>

<p>lowly, and riding on a donkey,</p>

<p>even on a colt, the foal of a donkey.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim,</p>

<p>and the horse from Jerusalem;</p>

<p>and the battle bow will be cut off;</p>

<p>and he will speak peace to the nations:</p>

<p>and his dominion will be from sea to sea,</p>

<p>and from the River to the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As for you also,</p>

<p>because of the blood of your covenant,</p>

<p>I have set free your prisoners from the pit in which is no water.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Turn to the stronghold, you prisoners of hope!</p>

<p>Even today I declare that I will restore double to you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For indeed I bend Judah as a bow for me.</p>

<p>I have filled the bow with Ephraim;</p>

<p>and I will stir up your sons, Zion,</p>

<p>against your sons, Greece,</p>

<p>and will make you like the sword of a mighty man.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yahweh will be seen over them;</p>

<p>and his arrow will go flash like lightning;</p>

<p>and the Lord Yahweh will blow the trumpet,</p>

<p>and will go with whirlwinds of the south.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yahweh of Armies will defend them;</p>

<p>and they will destroy and overcome with sling stones;</p>

<p>and they will drink, and roar as through wine;</p>

<p>and they will be filled like bowls,</p>

<p>like the corners of the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yahweh their God will save them in that day as the flock of his people;</p>

<p>for they are like the jewels of a crown,</p>

<p>lifted on high over his land.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For how great is his goodness,</p>

<p>and how great is his beauty!</p>

<p>Grain will make the young men flourish,</p>

<p>and new wine the virgins.</p>

</body>
</html>