<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Then the Kingdom of Heaven will be like ten virgins, who took their lamps, and went out to meet the bridegroom. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Five of them were foolish, and five were wise. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Those who were foolish, when they took their lamps, took no oil with them, <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now while the bridegroom delayed, they all slumbered and slept. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But at midnight there was a cry, ‘Behold! The bridegroom is coming! Come out to meet him!’ <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The foolish said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’ <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But the wise answered, saying, ‘What if there isn’t enough for us and you? You go rather to those who sell, and buy for yourselves.’ <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> While they went away to buy, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, and the door was shut. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Afterward the other virgins also came, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open to us.’ <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But he answered, ‘Most certainly I tell you, I don’t know you.’ <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Watch therefore, for you don’t know the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “For it is like a man, going into another country, who called his own servants, and entrusted his goods to them. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To one he gave five talents,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> to another two, to another one; to each according to his own ability. Then he went on his journey. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Immediately he who received the five talents went and traded with them, and made another five talents. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In the same way, he also who got the two gained another two. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But he who received the one talent went away and dug in the earth, and hid his lord’s money.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> “Now after a long time the lord of those servants came, and reconciled accounts with them. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He who received the five talents came and brought another five talents, saying, ‘Lord, you delivered to me five talents. Behold, I have gained another five talents besides them.’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things, I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> “He also who got the two talents came and said, ‘Lord, you delivered to me two talents. Behold, I have gained another two talents besides them.’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “His lord said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a few things, I will set you over many things. Enter into the joy of your lord.’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “He also who had received the one talent came and said, ‘Lord, I knew you that you are a hard man, reaping where you did not sow, and gathering where you did not scatter. <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I was afraid, and went away and hid your talent in the earth. Behold, you have what is yours.’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “But his lord answered him, ‘You wicked and slothful servant. You knew that I reap where I didn’t sow, and gather where I didn’t scatter. <a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> You ought therefore to have deposited my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received back my own with interest. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Take away therefore the talent from him, and give it to him who has the ten talents. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For to everyone who has will be given, and he will have abundance, but from him who doesn’t have, even that which he has will be taken away. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Throw out the unprofitable servant into the outer darkness, where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “But when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then he will sit on the throne of his glory. <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Before him all the nations will be gathered, and he will separate them one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He will set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then the King will tell those on his right hand, ‘Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; <a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> for I was hungry, and you gave me food to eat. I was thirsty, and you gave me drink. I was a stranger, and you took me in. <a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> I was naked, and you clothed me. I was sick, and you visited me. I was in prison, and you came to me.’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> “Then the righteous will answer him, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry, and feed you; or thirsty, and give you a drink? <a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> When did we see you as a stranger, and take you in; or naked, and clothe you? <a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> When did we see you sick, or in prison, and come to you?’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> “The King will answer them, ‘Most certainly I tell you, because you did it to one of the least of these my brothers,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> you did it to me.’ <a id="c25_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then he will say also to those on the left hand, ‘Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire which is prepared for the devil and his angels; <a id="c25_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> for I was hungry, and you didn’t give me food to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave me no drink; <a id="c25_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> I was a stranger, and you didn’t take me in; naked, and you didn’t clothe me; sick, and in prison, and you didn’t visit me.’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> “Then they will also answer, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry, or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and didn’t help you?’</p>

<p><a id="c25_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> “Then he will answer them, saying, ‘Most certainly I tell you, because you didn’t do it to one of the least of these, you didn’t do it to me.’ <a id="c25_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> These will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The end of the wick of an oil lamp needs to be cut off periodically to avoid having it become clogged with carbon deposits. The wick height is also adjusted so that the flame burns evenly and gives good light without producing a lot of smoke.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>A talent is about 30 kilograms or 66 pounds (usually used to weigh silver unless otherwise specified)</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>The word for “brothers” here may be also correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>