<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time, Jesus went on the Sabbath day through the grain fields. His disciples were hungry and began to pluck heads of grain and to eat. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But the Pharisees, when they saw it, said to him, “Behold, your disciples do what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But he said to them, “Haven’t you read what David did, when he was hungry, and those who were with him; <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> how he entered into God’s house, and ate the show bread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for those who were with him, but only for the priests?<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or have you not read in the law, that on the Sabbath day, the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath, and are guiltless? <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I tell you that one greater than the temple is here. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if you had known what this means, ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> you would not have condemned the guiltless. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He departed there, and went into their synagogue. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And behold there was a man with a withered hand. They asked him, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day?” that they might accuse him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He said to them, “What man is there among you, who has one sheep, and if this one falls into a pit on the Sabbath day, won’t he grab on to it, and lift it out? <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Of how much more value then is a man than a sheep! Therefore it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath day.” <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then he told the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out; and it was restored whole, just like the other. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But the Pharisees went out, and conspired against him, how they might destroy him. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Jesus, perceiving that, withdrew from there. Great multitudes followed him; and he healed them all, <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and commanded them that they should not make him known: <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Behold, my servant whom I have chosen;</p>

<p>my beloved in whom my soul is well pleased:</p>

<p>I will put my Spirit on him.</p>

<p>He will proclaim justice to the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will not strive, nor shout;</p>

<p>neither will anyone hear his voice in the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He won’t break a bruised reed.</p>

<p>He won’t quench a smoking flax,</p>

<p>until he leads justice to victory.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In his name, the nations will hope.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then one possessed by a demon, blind and mute, was brought to him and he healed him, so that the blind and mute man both spoke and saw. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> All the multitudes were amazed, and said, “Can this be the son of David?” <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, “This man does not cast out demons, except by Beelzebul, the prince of the demons.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Knowing their thoughts, Jesus said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself will not stand. <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If I by Beelzebul cast out demons, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if I by the Spirit of God cast out demons, then God’s Kingdom has come upon you. <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Or how can one enter into the house of the strong man, and plunder his goods, unless he first bind the strong man? Then he will plunder his house.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> “He who is not with me is against me, and he who doesn’t gather with me, scatters. <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore I tell you, every sin and blasphemy will be forgiven men, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven men. <a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man, it will be forgiven him; but whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit, it will not be forgiven him, neither in this age, nor in that which is to come.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> “Either make the tree good, and its fruit good, or make the tree corrupt, and its fruit corrupt; for the tree is known by its fruit. <a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> You offspring of vipers, how can you, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. <a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The good man out of his good treasure brings out good things, and the evil man out of his evil treasure<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> brings out evil things. <a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> I tell you that every idle word that men speak, they will give account of it in the day of judgment. <a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then certain of the scribes and Pharisees answered, “Teacher, we want to see a sign from you.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But he answered them, “An evil and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, but no sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah the prophet. <a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the whale, so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. <a id="c12_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The men of Nineveh will stand up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it, for they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and behold, someone greater than Jonah is here. <a id="c12_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The queen of the south will rise up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, someone greater than Solomon is here.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> When an unclean spirit has gone out of a man, he passes through waterless places, seeking rest, and doesn’t find it. <a id="c12_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then he says, ‘I will return into my house from which I came out,’ and when he has come back, he finds it empty, swept, and put in order. <a id="c12_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then he goes, and takes with himself seven other spirits more evil than he is, and they enter in and dwell there. The last state of that man becomes worse than the first. Even so will it be also to this evil generation.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> While he was yet speaking to the multitudes, behold, his mother and his brothers stood outside, seeking to speak to him. <a id="c12_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> One said to him, “Behold, your mother and your brothers stand outside, seeking to speak to you.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> But he answered him who spoke to him, “Who is my mother? Who are my brothers?” <a id="c12_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> He stretched out his hand towards his disciples, and said, “Behold, my mother and my brothers! <a id="c12_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> For whoever does the will of my Father who is in heaven, he is my brother, and sister, and mother.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>1 Samuel 21:3-6</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hosea 6:6</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Isaiah 42:1-4</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>TR adds “of the heart”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>