<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jesus answered and spoke again in parables to them, saying, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “The Kingdom of Heaven is like a certain king, who made a marriage feast for his son, <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and sent out his servants to call those who were invited to the marriage feast, but they would not come. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Again he sent out other servants, saying, ‘Tell those who are invited, “Behold, I have prepared my dinner. My cattle and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready. Come to the marriage feast!”’ <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his own farm, another to his merchandise, <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the rest grabbed his servants, and treated them shamefully, and killed them. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the king heard that, he was angry, and sent his armies, destroyed those murderers, and burned their city.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “Then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding is ready, but those who were invited weren’t worthy. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Go therefore to the intersections of the highways, and as many as you may find, invite to the marriage feast.’ <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together as many as they found, both bad and good. The wedding was filled with guests. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man who didn’t have on wedding clothing, <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and he said to him, ‘Friend, how did you come in here not wearing wedding clothing?’ He was speechless. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then the king said to the servants, ‘Bind him hand and foot, take him away, and throw him into the outer darkness; there is where the weeping and grinding of teeth will be.’ <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For many are called, but few chosen.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then the Pharisees went and took counsel how they might entrap him in his talk. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They sent their disciples to him, along with the Herodians, saying, “Teacher, we know that you are honest, and teach the way of God in truth, no matter whom you teach, for you aren’t partial to anyone. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Tell us therefore, what do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar, or not?”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, “Why do you test me, you hypocrites? <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Show me the tax money.”</p>

<p>They brought to him a denarius.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He asked them, “Whose is this image and inscription?”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They said to him, “Caesar’s.”</p>

<p>Then he said to them, “Give therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When they heard it, they marveled, and left him, and went away.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> On that day Sadducees (those who say that there is no resurrection) came to him. They asked him, <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> saying, “Teacher, Moses said, ‘If a man dies, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> for his brother.’ <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now there were with us seven brothers. The first married and died, and having no offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> left his wife to his brother. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In the same way, the second also, and the third, to the seventh. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> After them all, the woman died. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the resurrection therefore, whose wife will she be of the seven? For they all had her.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But Jesus answered them, “You are mistaken, not knowing the Scriptures, nor the power of God. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are like God’s angels in heaven. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But concerning the resurrection of the dead, haven’t you read that which was spoken to you by God, saying, <a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When the multitudes heard it, they were astonished at his teaching. <a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But the Pharisees, when they heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, gathered themselves together. <a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> One of them, a lawyer, asked him a question, testing him. <a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> “Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the law?”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Jesus said to him, “‘You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a>  <a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> This is the first and great commandment. <a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> A second likewise is this, ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a>  <a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The whole law and the prophets depend on these two commandments.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question, <a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> saying, “What do you think of the Christ? Whose son is he?”</p>

<p>They said to him, “Of David.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He said to them, “How then does David in the Spirit call him Lord, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> ‘The Lord said to my Lord,</p>

<p>sit on my right hand,</p>

<p>until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet?’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> “If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son?”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> No one was able to answer him a word, neither did any man dare ask him any more questions from that day forward.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Exodus 3:6</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Deuteronomy 6:5 </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Leviticus 19:18</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Psalm 110:1</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>