<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the son of David, the son of Abraham. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Abraham became the father of Isaac. Isaac became the father of Jacob. Jacob became the father of Judah and his brothers. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Judah became the father of Perez and Zerah by Tamar. Perez became the father of Hezron. Hezron became the father of Ram. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ram became the father of Amminadab. Amminadab became the father of Nahshon. Nahshon became the father of Salmon. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Salmon became the father of Boaz by Rahab. Boaz became the father of Obed by Ruth. Obed became the father of Jesse. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesse became the father of King David. David became the father of Solomon by her who had been Uriah’s wife. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Solomon became the father of Rehoboam. Rehoboam became the father of Abijah. Abijah became the father of Asa. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Asa became the father of Jehoshaphat. Jehoshaphat became the father of Joram. Joram became the father of Uzziah. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Uzziah became the father of Jotham. Jotham became the father of Ahaz. Ahaz became the father of Hezekiah. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hezekiah became the father of Manasseh. Manasseh became the father of Amon. Amon became the father of Josiah. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Josiah became the father of Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the exile to Babylon. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> After the exile to Babylon, Jechoniah became the father of Shealtiel. Shealtiel became the father of Zerubbabel. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Zerubbabel became the father of Abiud. Abiud became the father of Eliakim. Eliakim became the father of Azor. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Azor became the father of Zadok. Zadok became the father of Achim. Achim became the father of Eliud. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Eliud became the father of Eleazar. Eleazar became the father of Matthan. Matthan became the father of Jacob. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jacob became the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, from whom was born Jesus,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> who is called Christ. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; from David to the exile to Babylon fourteen generations; and from the carrying away to Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now the birth of Jesus Christ was like this; for after his mother, Mary, was engaged to Joseph, before they came together, she was found pregnant by the Holy Spirit. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man, and not willing to make her a public example, intended to put her away secretly. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But when he thought about these things, behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, “Joseph, son of David, don’t be afraid to take to yourself Mary, your wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Spirit. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She shall give birth to a son. You shall call his name Jesus, for it is he who shall save his people from their sins.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now all this has happened, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord through the prophet, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “Behold, the virgin shall be with child,</p>

<p>and shall give birth to a son.</p>

<p>They shall call his name Immanuel”;</p>

<p>which is, being interpreted, “God with us.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Joseph arose from his sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord commanded him, and took his wife to himself; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and didn’t know her sexually until she had given birth to her firstborn son. He named him Jesus.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Messiah (Hebrew) and Christ (Greek) both mean “Anointed One”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Jesus” means “Salvation”.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>“Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Isaiah 7:14</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>