<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “For the Kingdom of Heaven is like a man who was the master of a household, who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When he had agreed with the laborers for a denarius<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> a day, he sent them into his vineyard. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He went out about the third hour,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and saw others standing idle in the marketplace. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He said to them, ‘You also go into the vineyard, and whatever is right I will give you.’ So they went their way. <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Again he went out about the sixth and the ninth hour,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and did likewise. <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> About the eleventh hour<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> he went out, and found others standing idle. He said to them, ‘Why do you stand here all day idle?’</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> “They said to him, ‘Because no one has hired us.’</p>

<p>“He said to them, ‘You also go into the vineyard, and you will receive whatever is right.’ <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When evening had come, the lord of the vineyard said to his manager, ‘Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning from the last to the first.’</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “When those who were hired at about the eleventh hour came, they each received a denarius. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When the first came, they supposed that they would receive more; and they likewise each received a denarius. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When they received it, they murmured against the master of the household, <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> saying, ‘These last have spent one hour, and you have made them equal to us, who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat!’</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “But he answered one of them, ‘Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Didn’t you agree with me for a denarius? <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Take that which is yours, and go your way. It is my desire to give to this last just as much as to you. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Isn’t it lawful for me to do what I want to with what I own? Or is your eye evil, because I am good?’ <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So the last will be first, and the first last. For many are called, but few are chosen.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them, <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> “Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death, <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and will hand him over to the Gentiles to mock, to scourge, and to crucify; and the third day he will be raised up.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to him with her sons, kneeling and asking a certain thing of him. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He said to her, “What do you want?”</p>

<p>She said to him, “Command that these, my two sons, may sit, one on your right hand, and one on your left hand, in your Kingdom.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Jesus answered, “You don’t know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?”</p>

<p>They said to him, “We are able.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He said to them, “You will indeed drink my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with, but to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give; but it is for whom it has been prepared by my Father.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When the ten heard it, they were indignant with the two brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But Jesus summoned them, and said, “You know that the rulers of the nations lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> It shall not be so among you, but whoever desires to become great among you shall be<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> your servant. <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoever desires to be first among you shall be your bondservant, <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> As they went out from Jericho, a great multitude followed him. <a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Behold, two blind men sitting by the road, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, “Lord, have mercy on us, you son of David!” <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The multitude rebuked them, telling them that they should be quiet, but they cried out even more, “Lord, have mercy on us, you son of David!”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Jesus stood still, and called them, and asked, “What do you want me to do for you?”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> They told him, “Lord, that our eyes may be opened.”</p>

<p><a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus, being moved with compassion, touched their eyes; and immediately their eyes received their sight, and they followed him.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>A denarius is a silver Roman coin worth 1/25th of a Roman aureus. This was a common wage for a day of farm labor.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Time was measured from sunrise to sunset, so the third hour would be about 9:00 a.m..</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>noon and 3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>5:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>TR reads “let him be” instead of “shall be” </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>