<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time, Herod the tetrarch heard the report concerning Jesus, <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and said to his servants, “This is John the Baptizer. He is risen from the dead. That is why these powers work in him.” <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Herod had laid hold of John, and bound him, and put him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip’s wife. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For John said to him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.” <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But when Herod’s birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced among them and pleased Herod. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatever she should ask. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> She, being prompted by her mother, said, “Give me here on a platter the head of John the Baptizer.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The king was grieved, but for the sake of his oaths, and of those who sat at the table with him, he commanded it to be given, <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and he sent and beheaded John in the prison. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His head was brought on a platter, and given to the young lady: and she brought it to her mother. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His disciples came, and took the body, and buried it; and they went and told Jesus. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat, to a deserted place apart. When the multitudes heard it, they followed him on foot from the cities.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jesus went out, and he saw a great multitude. He had compassion on them, and healed their sick. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> When evening had come, his disciples came to him, saying, “This place is deserted, and the hour is already late. Send the multitudes away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves food.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Jesus said to them, “They don’t need to go away. You give them something to eat.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They told him, “We only have here five loaves and two fish.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He said, “Bring them here to me.” <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He commanded the multitudes to sit down on the grass; and he took the five loaves and the two fish, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, broke and gave the loaves to the disciples, and the disciples gave to the multitudes. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They all ate, and were filled. They took up twelve baskets full of that which remained left over from the broken pieces. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Immediately Jesus made the disciples get into the boat, and to go ahead of him to the other side, while he sent the multitudes away. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> After he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into the mountain by himself to pray. When evening had come, he was there alone. <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But the boat was now in the middle of the sea, distressed by the waves, for the wind was contrary. <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In the fourth watch of the night,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Jesus came to them, walking on the sea.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, “It’s a ghost!” and they cried out for fear. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying, “Cheer up! It is I!<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> Don’t be afraid.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Peter answered him and said, “Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the waters.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He said, “Come!”</p>

<p>Peter stepped down from the boat, and walked on the waters to come to Jesus. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But when he saw that the wind was strong, he was afraid, and beginning to sink, he cried out, saying, “Lord, save me!”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Immediately Jesus stretched out his hand, took hold of him, and said to him, “You of little faith, why did you doubt?” <a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> When they got up into the boat, the wind ceased. <a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Those who were in the boat came and worshiped him, saying, “You are truly the Son of God!”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> When they had crossed over, they came to the land of Gennesaret. <a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> When the people of that place recognized him, they sent into all that surrounding region, and brought to him all who were sick; <a id="c14_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and they begged him that they might just touch the fringe<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> of his garment. As many as touched it were made whole.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The night was equally divided into four watches, so the fourth watch is approximately 3:00 a.m. to sunrise. </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>see Job 9:8</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, I AM!</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, tassel</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>