<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After six days, Jesus took with him Peter, James, and John his brother, and brought them up into a high mountain by themselves. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He was transfigured before them. His face shone like the sun, and his garments became as white as the light. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, Moses and Elijah appeared to them talking with him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Peter answered, and said to Jesus, “Lord, it is good for us to be here. If you want, let’s make three tents here: one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah.”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them. Behold, a voice came out of the cloud, saying, “This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Listen to him.”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When the disciples heard it, they fell on their faces, and were very afraid. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus came and touched them and said, “Get up, and don’t be afraid.” <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lifting up their eyes, they saw no one, except Jesus alone. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As they were coming down from the mountain, Jesus commanded them, saying, “Don’t tell anyone what you saw, until the Son of Man has risen from the dead.”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His disciples asked him, saying, “Then why do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jesus answered them, “Elijah indeed comes first, and will restore all things, <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> but I tell you that Elijah has come already, and they didn’t recognize him, but did to him whatever they wanted to. Even so the Son of Man will also suffer by them.” <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them of John the Baptizer.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When they came to the multitude, a man came to him, kneeling down to him, and saying, <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> “Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is epileptic, and suffers grievously; for he often falls into the fire, and often into the water. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So I brought him to your disciples, and they could not cure him.”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jesus answered, “Faithless and perverse generation! How long will I be with you? How long will I bear with you? Bring him here to me.” <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jesus rebuked him, the demon went out of him, and the boy was cured from that hour.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then the disciples came to Jesus privately, and said, “Why weren’t we able to cast it out?”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He said to them, “Because of your unbelief. For most certainly I tell you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you will tell this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move; and nothing will be impossible for you. <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But this kind doesn’t go out except by prayer and fasting.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> While they were staying in Galilee, Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is about to be delivered up into the hands of men, <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and they will kill him, and the third day he will be raised up.”</p>

<p>They were exceedingly sorry. <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When they had come to Capernaum, those who collected the didrachma coins<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> came to Peter, and said, “Doesn’t your teacher pay the didrachma?” <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He said, “Yes.”</p>

<p>When he came into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, “What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth receive toll or tribute? From their children, or from strangers?”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Peter said to him, “From strangers.”</p>

<p>Jesus said to him, “Therefore the children are exempt. <a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But, lest we cause them to stumble, go to the sea, cast a hook, and take up the first fish that comes up. When you have opened its mouth, you will find a stater coin.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> Take that, and give it to them for me and you.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>NU omits verse 21.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>A didrachma is a Greek silver coin worth 2 drachmas, about as much as 2 Roman denarii, or about 2 days’ wages. It was commonly used to pay the half-shekel temple tax, because 2 drachmas were worth one half shekel of silver. A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>A stater is a silver coin equivalent to four Attic or two Alexandrian drachmas, or a Jewish shekel: just exactly enough to cover the half-shekel temple tax for two people. A shekel is about 10 grams or about 0.35 ounces, usually in the form of a silver coin.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>