<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He called to himself his twelve disciples, and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease and every sickness. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the names of the twelve apostles are these. The first, Simon, who is called Peter; Andrew, his brother; James the son of Zebedee; John, his brother; <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Philip; Bartholomew; Thomas; Matthew the tax collector; James the son of Alphaeus; Lebbaeus, who was also called<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Thaddaeus; <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Simon the Canaanite; and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jesus sent these twelve out, and commanded them, saying, “Don’t go among the Gentiles, and don’t enter into any city of the Samaritans. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Rather, go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As you go, preach, saying, ‘The Kingdom of Heaven is at hand!’ <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and cast out demons. Freely you received, so freely give. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Don’t take any gold, silver, or brass in your money belts. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Take no bag for your journey, neither two coats, nor shoes, nor staff: for the laborer is worthy of his food. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Into whatever city or village you enter, find out who in it is worthy; and stay there until you go on. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As you enter into the household, greet it. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If the household is worthy, let your peace come on it, but if it isn’t worthy, let your peace return to you. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whoever doesn’t receive you, nor hear your words, as you go out of that house or that city, shake off the dust from your feet. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Most certainly I tell you, it will be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Behold, I send you out as sheep among wolves. Therefore be wise as serpents, and harmless as doves. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But beware of men: for they will deliver you up to councils, and in their synagogues they will scourge you. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yes, and you will be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony to them and to the nations. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But when they deliver you up, don’t be anxious how or what you will say, for it will be given you in that hour what you will say. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who speaks in you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “Brother will deliver up brother to death, and the father his child. Children will rise up against parents, and cause them to be put to death. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You will be hated by all men for my name’s sake, but he who endures to the end will be saved. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But when they persecute you in this city, flee into the next, for most certainly I tell you, you will not have gone through the cities of Israel, until the Son of Man has come.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his lord. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It is enough for the disciple that he be like his teacher, and the servant like his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebul,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> how much more those of his household! <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore don’t be afraid of them, for there is nothing covered that will not be revealed; and hidden that will not be known. <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> What I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light; and what you hear whispered in the ear, proclaim on the housetops. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Don’t be afraid of those who kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul. Rather, fear him who is able to destroy both soul and body in Gehenna.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “Aren’t two sparrows sold for an assarion coin?<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> Not one of them falls on the ground apart from your Father’s will, <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> but the very hairs of your head are all numbered. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore don’t be afraid. You are of more value than many sparrows. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Everyone therefore who confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven. <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> “Don’t think that I came to send peace on the earth. I didn’t come to send peace, but a sword. <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For I came to set a man at odds against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law. <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> A man’s foes will be those of his own household.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a>  <a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> He who loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me; and he who loves son or daughter more than me isn’t worthy of me. <a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He who doesn’t take his cross and follow after me, isn’t worthy of me. <a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He who seeks his life will lose it; and he who loses his life for my sake will find it. <a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He who receives you receives me, and he who receives me receives him who sent me. <a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He who receives a prophet in the name of a prophet will receive a prophet’s reward. He who receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man will receive a righteous man’s reward. <a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Whoever gives one of these little ones just a cup of cold water to drink in the name of a disciple, most certainly I tell you he will in no way lose his reward.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>NU omits “Lebbaeus, who was also called”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>TR adds “raise the dead,”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Literally, Lord of the Flies, or the devil</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, Hell.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>An assarion is a small coin worth one tenth of a drachma or a sixteenth of a denarius. An assarion is approximately the wages of one half hour of agricultural labor.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Micah 7:6</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>