<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now after the Sabbath, as it began to dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to see the tomb. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from the sky, and came and rolled away the stone from the door, and sat on it. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing white as snow. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For fear of him, the guards shook, and became like dead men. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The angel answered the women, “Don’t be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus, who has been crucified. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is not here, for he has risen, just like he said. Come, see the place where the Lord was lying. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Go quickly and tell his disciples, ‘He has risen from the dead, and behold, he goes before you into Galilee; there you will see him.’ Behold, I have told you.”</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to bring his disciples word. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, “Rejoice!”</p>

<p>They came and took hold of his feet, and worshiped him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Jesus said to them, “Don’t be afraid. Go tell my brothers<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> that they should go into Galilee, and there they will see me.”</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now while they were going, behold, some of the guards came into the city, and told the chief priests all the things that had happened. <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave a large amount of silver to the soldiers, <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> saying, “Say that his disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept. <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If this comes to the governor’s ears, we will persuade him and make you free of worry.” <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So they took the money and did as they were told. This saying was spread abroad among the Jews, and continues until today.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But the eleven disciples went into Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had sent them. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When they saw him, they bowed down to him, but some doubted. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jesus came to them and spoke to them, saying, “All authority has been given to me in heaven and on earth. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Go,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> teaching them to observe all things that I commanded you. Behold, I am with you always, even to the end of the age.” Amen.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word for “brothers” here may be also correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>TR and NU add “therefore”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>