<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now when morning had come, all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death: <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and they bound him, and led him away, and delivered him up to Pontius Pilate, the governor. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Judas, who betrayed him, when he saw that Jesus was condemned, felt remorse, and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> saying, “I have sinned in that I betrayed innocent blood.”</p>

<p>But they said, “What is that to us? You see to it.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He threw down the pieces of silver in the sanctuary, and departed. He went away and hanged himself. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The chief priests took the pieces of silver, and said, “It’s not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is the price of blood.” <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They took counsel, and bought the potter’s field with them, to bury strangers in. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore that field was called “The Field of Blood” to this day. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then that which was spoken through Jeremiah<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the prophet was fulfilled, saying,</p>

<p>“They took the thirty pieces of silver,</p>

<p>the price of him upon whom a price had been set,</p>

<p>whom some of the children of Israel priced,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and they gave them for the potter’s field,</p>

<p>as the Lord commanded me.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now Jesus stood before the governor: and the governor asked him, saying, “Are you the King of the Jews?”</p>

<p>Jesus said to him, “So you say.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then Pilate said to him, “Don’t you hear how many things they testify against you?”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He gave him no answer, not even one word, so that the governor marveled greatly. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release to the multitude one prisoner, whom they desired. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When therefore they were gathered together, Pilate said to them, “Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas, or Jesus, who is called Christ?” <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he knew that because of envy they had delivered him up.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, “Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered many things today in a dream because of him.” <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the multitudes to ask for Barabbas, and destroy Jesus. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But the governor answered them, “Which of the two do you want me to release to you?”</p>

<p>They said, “Barabbas!”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Pilate said to them, “What then shall I do to Jesus, who is called Christ?”</p>

<p>They all said to him, “Let him be crucified!”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But the governor said, “Why? What evil has he done?”</p>

<p>But they cried out exceedingly, saying, “Let him be crucified!”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So when Pilate saw that nothing was being gained, but rather that a disturbance was starting, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, “I am innocent of the blood of this righteous person. You see to it.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All the people answered, “May his blood be on us, and on our children!”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then he released to them Barabbas, but Jesus he flogged and delivered to be crucified. <a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then the governor’s soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium, and gathered the whole garrison together against him. <a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They stripped him, and put a scarlet robe on him. <a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> They braided a crown of thorns and put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and they kneeled down before him, and mocked him, saying, “Hail, King of the Jews!” <a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They spat on him, and took the reed and struck him on the head. <a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> When they had mocked him, they took the robe off of him, and put his clothes on him, and led him away to crucify him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> As they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name, and they compelled him to go with them, that he might carry his cross. <a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When they came to a place called “Golgotha”, that is to say, “The place of a skull,” <a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> they gave him sour wine<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> to drink mixed with gall. When he had tasted it, he would not drink. <a id="c27_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> When they had crucified him, they divided his clothing among them, casting lots,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a>  <a id="c27_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and they sat and watched him there. <a id="c27_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> They set up over his head the accusation against him written, “THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then there were two robbers crucified with him, one on his right hand and one on the left. <a id="c27_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads, <a id="c27_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and saying, “You who destroy the temple, and build it in three days, save yourself! If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross!”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Likewise the chief priests also mocking, with the scribes, the Pharisees,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> and the elders, said, <a id="c27_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> “He saved others, but he can’t save himself. If he is the King of Israel, let him come down from the cross now, and we will believe in him. <a id="c27_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He trusts in God. Let God deliver him now, if he wants him; for he said, ‘I am the Son of God.’” <a id="c27_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> The robbers also who were crucified with him cast on him the same reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Now from the sixth hour<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> there was darkness over all the land until the ninth hour.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a>  <a id="c27_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> About the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, “Eli, Eli, lima<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> sabachthani?”  That is, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c27_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Some of them who stood there, when they heard it, said, “This man is calling Elijah.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Immediately one of them ran, and took a sponge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him a drink. <a id="c27_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> The rest said, “Let him be. Let’s see whether Elijah comes to save him.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Jesus cried again with a loud voice, and yielded up his spirit. <a id="c27_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from the top to the bottom. The earth quaked and the rocks were split. <a id="c27_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> The tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised; <a id="c27_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, they entered into the holy city and appeared to many. <a id="c27_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Now the centurion, and those who were with him watching Jesus, when they saw the earthquake, and the things that were done, feared exceedingly, saying, “Truly this was the Son of God.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Many women were there watching from afar, who had followed Jesus from Galilee, serving him. <a id="c27_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee. <a id="c27_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> When evening had come, a rich man from Arimathaea, named Joseph, who himself was also Jesus’ disciple came. <a id="c27_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> This man went to Pilate, and asked for Jesus’ body. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given up. <a id="c27_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> Joseph took the body, and wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, <a id="c27_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> and laid it in his own new tomb, which he had cut out in the rock, and he rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb, and departed. <a id="c27_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> Mary Magdalene was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the tomb. <a id="c27_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> Now on the next day, which was the day after the Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees were gathered together to Pilate, <a id="c27_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> saying, “Sir, we remember what that deceiver said while he was still alive: ‘After three days I will rise again.’ <a id="c27_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Command therefore that the tomb be made secure until the third day, lest perhaps his disciples come at night and steal him away, and tell the people, ‘He is risen from the dead;’ and the last deception will be worse than the first.”</p>

<p><a id="c27_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Pilate said to them, “You have a guard. Go, make it as secure as you can.” <a id="c27_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> So they went with the guard and made the tomb secure, sealing the stone.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>some manuscripts omit “Jeremiah”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Zechariah 11:12-13; Jeremiah 19:1-13; 32:6-9</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, vinegar</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>TR adds “that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet: ‘They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots;’” [see Psalm 22:18 and John 19:24]</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>TR omits “the Pharisees”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>noon</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p>3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p>TR reads “lama” instead of “lima”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p>Psalm 22:1</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>