<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus from Jerusalem, saying, <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> “Why do your disciples disobey the tradition of the elders? For they don’t wash their hands when they eat bread.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He answered them, “Why do you also disobey the commandment of God because of your tradition? <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For God commanded, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and, ‘He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But you say, ‘Whoever may tell his father or his mother, “Whatever help you might otherwise have gotten from me is a gift devoted to God,” <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> he shall not honor his father or mother.’ You have made the commandment of God void because of your tradition. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> ‘These people draw near to me with their mouth,</p>

<p>and honor me with their lips;</p>

<p>but their heart is far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And in vain do they worship me,</p>

<p>teaching as doctrine rules made by men.’”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He summoned the multitude, and said to them, “Hear, and understand. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> That which enters into the mouth doesn’t defile the man; but that which proceeds out of the mouth, this defiles the man.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then the disciples came, and said to him, “Do you know that the Pharisees were offended, when they heard this saying?”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he answered, “Every plant which my heavenly Father didn’t plant will be uprooted. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Leave them alone. They are blind guides of the blind. If the blind guide the blind, both will fall into a pit.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Peter answered him, “Explain the parable to us.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So Jesus said, “Do you also still not understand? <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Don’t you understand that whatever goes into the mouth passes into the belly, and then out of the body? <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the things which proceed out of the mouth come out of the heart, and they defile the man. <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For out of the heart come evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, sexual sins, thefts, false testimony, and blasphemies. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These are the things which defile the man; but to eat with unwashed hands doesn’t defile the man.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus went out from there, and withdrew into the region of Tyre and Sidon. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold, a Canaanite woman came out from those borders, and cried, saying, “Have mercy on me, Lord, you son of David! My daughter is severely possessed by a demon!”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he answered her not a word.</p>

<p>His disciples came and begged him, saying, “Send her away; for she cries after us.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But he answered, “I wasn’t sent to anyone but the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But she came and worshiped him, saying, “Lord, help me.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But he answered, “It is not appropriate to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But she said, “Yes, Lord, but even the dogs eat the crumbs which fall from their masters’ table.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then Jesus answered her, “Woman, great is your faith! Be it done to you even as you desire.” And her daughter was healed from that hour.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jesus departed there, and came near to the sea of Galilee; and he went up into the mountain, and sat there. <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Great multitudes came to him, having with them the lame, blind, mute, maimed, and many others, and they put them down at his feet. He healed them, <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> so that the multitude wondered when they saw the mute speaking, the injured healed, the lame walking, and the blind seeing—and they glorified the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Jesus summoned his disciples and said, “I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days and have nothing to eat. I don’t want to send them away fasting, or they might faint on the way.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The disciples said to him, “Where should we get so many loaves in a deserted place as to satisfy so great a multitude?”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus said to them, “How many loaves do you have?”</p>

<p>They said, “Seven, and a few small fish.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground; <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and he took the seven loaves and the fish. He gave thanks and broke them, and gave to the disciples, and the disciples to the multitudes. <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> They all ate, and were filled. They took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces that were left over. <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Then he sent away the multitudes, got into the boat, and came into the borders of Magdala.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Exodus 20:12; Deuteronomy 5:16</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Exodus 21:17; Leviticus 20:9</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Isaiah 29:13 </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>