<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Jesus spoke to the multitudes and to his disciples, <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> saying, “The scribes and the Pharisees sat on Moses’ seat. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All things therefore whatever they tell you to observe, observe and do, but don’t do their works; for they say, and don’t do. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For they bind heavy burdens that are grievous to be borne, and lay them on men’s shoulders; but they themselves will not lift a finger to help them. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But all their works they do to be seen by men. They make their phylacteries<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> broad, enlarge the fringes<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of their garments, <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and love the place of honor at feasts, the best seats in the synagogues, <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> the salutations in the marketplaces, and to be called ‘Rabbi, Rabbi’ by men. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But don’t you be called ‘Rabbi,’ for one is your teacher, the Christ, and all of you are brothers. <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Call no man on the earth your father, for one is your Father, he who is in heaven. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Neither be called masters, for one is your master, the Christ. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But he who is greatest among you will be your servant. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you devour widows’ houses, and as a pretense you make long prayers. Therefore you will receive greater condemnation.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> “But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because you shut up the Kingdom of Heaven against men; for you don’t enter in yourselves, neither do you allow those who are entering in to enter.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel around by sea and land to make one proselyte; and when he becomes one, you make him twice as much of a son of Gehenna<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> as yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “Woe to you, you blind guides, who say, ‘Whoever swears by the temple, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gold of the temple, he is obligated.’ <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifies the gold? <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> ‘Whoever swears by the altar, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gift that is on it, he is obligated?’ <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You blind fools! For which is greater, the gift, or the altar that sanctifies the gift? <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He therefore who swears by the altar, swears by it, and by everything on it. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He who swears by the temple, swears by it, and by him who was living<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> in it. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He who swears by heaven, swears by the throne of God, and by him who sits on it.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you tithe mint, dill, and cumin,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> and have left undone the weightier matters of the law: justice, mercy, and faith. But you ought to have done these, and not to have left the other undone. <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> You blind guides, who strain out a gnat, and swallow a camel!</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and unrighteousness.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a>  <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and of the platter, that its outside may become clean also.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitened tombs, which outwardly appear beautiful, but inwardly are full of dead men’s bones, and of all uncleanness. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Even so you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inwardly you are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets, and decorate the tombs of the righteous, <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and say, ‘If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we wouldn’t have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.’ <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore you testify to yourselves that you are children of those who killed the prophets. <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers. <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> You serpents, you offspring of vipers, how will you escape the judgment of Gehenna?<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a>  <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Therefore behold, I send to you prophets, wise men, and scribes. Some of them you will kill and crucify; and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues, and persecute from city to city; <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zachariah son of Barachiah, whom you killed between the sanctuary and the altar. <a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Most certainly I tell you, all these things will come upon this generation.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, who kills the prophets, and stones those who are sent to her! How often I would have gathered your children together, even as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you would not! <a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Behold, your house is left to you desolate. <a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For I tell you, you will not see me from now on, until you say, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!’”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a></p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>phylacteries (tefillin in Hebrew) are small leather pouches that some Jewish men wear on their forehead and arm in prayer. They are used to carry a small scroll with some Scripture in it. See Deuteronomy 6:8.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, tassels</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Some Greek manuscripts reverse the order of verses 13 and 14, and some omit verse 13, numbering verse 14 as 13. NU omits verse 14.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, Hell</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>NU reads “lives”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>cumin is an aromatic seed from Cuminum cyminum, resembling caraway in flavor and appearance. It is used as a spice.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p>TR reads “self-indulgence” instead of “unrighteousness”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p>or, Hell</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p>Psalm 118:26 </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>