<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When he came down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Behold, a leper came to him and worshiped him, saying, “Lord, if you want to, you can make me clean.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus stretched out his hand, and touched him, saying, “I want to. Be made clean.” Immediately his leprosy was cleansed. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Jesus said to him, “See that you tell nobody, but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, as a testimony to them.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When he came into Capernaum, a centurion came to him, asking him, <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and saying, “Lord, my servant lies in the house paralyzed, grievously tormented.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus said to him, “I will come and heal him.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The centurion answered, “Lord, I’m not worthy for you to come under my roof. Just say the word, and my servant will be healed. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I am also a man under authority, having under myself soldiers. I tell this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and tell another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and tell my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When Jesus heard it, he marveled, and said to those who followed, “Most certainly I tell you, I haven’t found so great a faith, not even in Israel. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I tell you that many will come from the east and the west, and will sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the Kingdom of Heaven, <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> but the children of the Kingdom will be thrown out into the outer darkness. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.” <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jesus said to the centurion, “Go your way. Let it be done for you as you have believed.” His servant was healed in that hour.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When Jesus came into Peter’s house, he saw his wife’s mother lying sick with a fever. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He touched her hand, and the fever left her. She got up and served him.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When evening came, they brought to him many possessed with demons. He cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all who were sick; <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet, saying, “He took our infirmities, and bore our diseases.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now when Jesus saw great multitudes around him, he gave the order to depart to the other side.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A scribe came, and said to him, “Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Jesus said to him, “The foxes have holes, and the birds of the sky have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Another of his disciples said to him, “Lord, allow me first to go and bury my father.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Jesus said to him, “Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> When he got into a boat, his disciples followed him. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Behold, a violent storm came up on the sea, so much that the boat was covered with the waves, but he was asleep. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They came to him, and woke him up, saying, “Save us, Lord! We are dying!”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He said to them, “Why are you fearful, O you of little faith?”  Then he got up, rebuked the wind and the sea, and there was a great calm.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The men marveled, saying, “What kind of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> When he came to the other side, into the country of the Gergesenes,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> two people possessed by demons met him there, coming out of the tombs, exceedingly fierce, so that nobody could pass that way. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Behold, they cried out, saying, “What do we have to do with you, Jesus, Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time?” <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now there was a herd of many pigs feeding far away from them. <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The demons begged him, saying, “If you cast us out, permit us to go away into the herd of pigs.”</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He said to them, “Go!”</p>

<p>They came out, and went into the herd of pigs: and behold, the whole herd of pigs rushed down the cliff into the sea, and died in the water. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Those who fed them fled, and went away into the city, and told everything, including what happened to those who were possessed with demons. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus. When they saw him, they begged that he would depart from their borders.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>TR reads “them” instead of “him”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Isaiah 53:4 </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>NU reads “Gadarenes”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>