<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Immediately in the morning the chief priests, with the elders and scribes, and the whole council, held a consultation, and bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him up to Pilate. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Pilate asked him, “Are you the King of the Jews?”</p>

<p>He answered, “So you say.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The chief priests accused him of many things. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Pilate again asked him, “Have you no answer? See how many things they testify against you!”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate marveled.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now at the feast he used to release to them one prisoner, whom they asked of him. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There was one called Barabbas, bound with his fellow insurgents, men who in the insurrection had committed murder. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The multitude, crying aloud, began to ask him to do as he always did for them. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Pilate answered them, saying, “Do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?” <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he perceived that for envy the chief priests had delivered him up. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the chief priests stirred up the multitude, that he should release Barabbas to them instead. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Pilate again asked them, “What then should I do to him whom you call the King of the Jews?”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They cried out again, “Crucify him!”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Pilate said to them, “Why, what evil has he done?”</p>

<p>But they cried out exceedingly, “Crucify him!”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Pilate, wishing to please the multitude, released Barabbas to them, and handed over Jesus, when he had flogged him, to be crucified. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The soldiers led him away within the court, which is the Praetorium; and they called together the whole cohort. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They clothed him with purple, and weaving a crown of thorns, they put it on him. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They began to salute him, “Hail, King of the Jews!” <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They struck his head with a reed, and spat on him, and bowing their knees, did homage to him. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When they had mocked him, they took the purple off of him, and put his own garments on him. They led him out to crucify him. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They compelled one passing by, coming from the country, Simon of Cyrene, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to go with them, that he might bear his cross. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They brought him to the place called Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, “The place of a skull.” <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They offered him wine mixed with myrrh to drink, but he didn’t take it.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Crucifying him, they parted his garments among them, casting lots on them, what each should take. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It was the third hour,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and they crucified him. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The superscription of his accusation was written over him, “THE KING OF THE JEWS.” <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> With him they crucified two robbers; one on his right hand, and one on his left. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The Scripture was fulfilled, which says, “He was counted with transgressors.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Those who passed by blasphemed him, wagging their heads, and saying, “Ha! You who destroy the temple, and build it in three days, <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> save yourself, and come down from the cross!”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Likewise, also the chief priests mocking among themselves with the scribes said, “He saved others. He can’t save himself. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let the Christ, the King of Israel, now come down from the cross, that we may see and believe him.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> Those who were crucified with him also insulted him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When the sixth hour<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> had come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a>  <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> At the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, “Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?” which is, being interpreted, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Some of those who stood by, when they heard it, said, “Behold, he is calling Elijah.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> One ran, and filling a sponge full of vinegar, put it on a reed, and gave it to him to drink, saying, “Let him be. Let’s see whether Elijah comes to take him down.”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Jesus cried out with a loud voice, and gave up the spirit. <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> The veil of the temple was torn in two from the top to the bottom. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> When the centurion, who stood by opposite him, saw that he cried out like this and breathed his last, he said, “Truly this man was the Son of God!”</p>

<p><a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> There were also women watching from afar, among whom were both Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, and Salome; <a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> who, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and served him; and many other women who came up with him to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> When evening had now come, because it was the Preparation Day, that is, the day before the Sabbath, <a id="c15_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Joseph of Arimathaea, a prominent council member who also himself was looking for God’s Kingdom, came. He boldly went in to Pilate, and asked for Jesus’ body. <a id="c15_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Pilate marveled if he were already dead; and summoning the centurion, he asked him whether he had been dead long. <a id="c15_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> When he found out from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph. <a id="c15_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He bought a linen cloth, and taking him down, wound him in the linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb which had been cut out of a rock. He rolled a stone against the door of the tomb. <a id="c15_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of Joses, saw where he was laid.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>9:00 a.m.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>NU omits verse 28.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>TR omits “him”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, noon</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Psalm 22:1</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>