<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then the Pharisees and some of the scribes gathered together to him, having come from Jerusalem. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now when they saw some of his disciples eating bread with defiled, that is unwashed, hands, they found fault. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> (For the Pharisees and all the Jews, don’t eat unless they wash their hands and forearms, holding to the tradition of the elders. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They don’t eat when they come from the marketplace unless they bathe themselves, and there are many other things, which they have received to hold to: washings of cups, pitchers, bronze vessels, and couches.) <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The Pharisees and the scribes asked him, “Why don’t your disciples walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with unwashed hands?”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He answered them, “Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written,</p>

<p>‘This people honors me with their lips,</p>

<p>but their heart is far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But they worship me in vain,</p>

<p>teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “For you set aside the commandment of God, and hold tightly to the tradition of men—the washing of pitchers and cups, and you do many other such things.” <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He said to them, “Full well do you reject the commandment of God, that you may keep your tradition. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and your mother;’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and, ‘He who speaks evil of father or mother, let him be put to death.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But you say, ‘If a man tells his father or his mother, “Whatever profit you might have received from me is Corban,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> that is to say, given to God”;’ <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> then you no longer allow him to do anything for his father or his mother, <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> making void the word of God by your tradition, which you have handed down. You do many things like this.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He called all the multitude to himself, and said to them, “Hear me, all of you, and understand. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There is nothing from outside of the man, that going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of the man are those that defile the man. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear!”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When he had entered into a house away from the multitude, his disciples asked him about the parable. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He said to them, “Are you also without understanding? Don’t you perceive that whatever goes into the man from outside can’t defile him, <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> because it doesn’t go into his heart, but into his stomach, then into the latrine, thus purifying all foods<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> ?” <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He said, “That which proceeds out of the man, that defiles the man. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For from within, out of the hearts of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, sexual sins, murders, thefts, <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> covetings, wickedness, deceit, lustful desires, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, and foolishness. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> All these evil things come from within, and defile the man.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> From there he arose, and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. He entered into a house, and didn’t want anyone to know it, but he couldn’t escape notice. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his feet. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Now the woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by race. She begged him that he would cast the demon out of her daughter. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But Jesus said to her, “Let the children be filled first, for it is not appropriate to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But she answered him, “Yes, Lord. Yet even the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He said to her, “For this saying, go your way. The demon has gone out of your daughter.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> She went away to her house, and found the child having been laid on the bed, with the demon gone out.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Again he departed from the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and came to the sea of Galilee, through the middle of the region of Decapolis. <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> They brought to him one who was deaf and had an impediment in his speech. They begged him to lay his hand on him. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He took him aside from the multitude, privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spat, and touched his tongue. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Looking up to heaven, he sighed, and said to him, “Ephphatha!”  that is, “Be opened!” <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Immediately his ears were opened, and the impediment of his tongue was released, and he spoke clearly. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He commanded them that they should tell no one, but the more he commanded them, so much the more widely they proclaimed it. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> They were astonished beyond measure, saying, “He has done all things well. He makes even the deaf hear, and the mute speak!”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Isaiah 29:13 </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Exodus 20:12; Deuteronomy 5:16</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Exodus 21:17; Leviticus 20:9</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Corban is a Hebrew word for an offering devoted to God.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>NU omits verse 16.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>or, “making all foods clean”. NU ends Jesus’ direct quote and question after “latrine”, ending the verse with “Thus he declared all foods clean. </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>