<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The beginning of the Good News of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As it is written in the prophets,</p>

<p>“Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> I send my messenger before your face,</p>

<p>who will prepare your way before you:<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the voice of one crying in the wilderness,</p>

<p>‘Make ready the way of the Lord!</p>

<p>Make his paths straight!’”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> John came baptizing<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> in the wilderness and preaching the baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All the country of Judea and all those of Jerusalem went out to him. They were baptized by him in the Jordan river, confessing their sins. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> John was clothed with camel’s hair and a leather belt around his waist. He ate locusts and wild honey. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He preached, saying, “After me comes he who is mightier than I, the thong of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and loosen. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I baptized you in<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> water, but he will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In those days, Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized by John in the Jordan. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Immediately coming up from the water, he saw the heavens parting, and the Spirit descending on him like a dove. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A voice came out of the sky, “You are my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Immediately the Spirit drove him out into the wilderness. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan. He was with the wild animals; and the angels were serving him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now after John was taken into custody, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the Good News of God’s Kingdom, <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and saying, “The time is fulfilled, and God’s Kingdom is at hand! Repent, and believe in the Good News.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Passing along by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jesus said to them, “Come after me, and I will make you into fishers for men.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Immediately they left their nets, and followed him. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Going on a little further from there, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother, who were also in the boat mending the nets. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Immediately he called them, and they left their father, Zebedee, in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They went into Capernaum, and immediately on the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They were astonished at his teaching, for he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit, and he cried out, <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> saying, “Ha! What do we have to do with you, Jesus, you Nazarene? Have you come to destroy us? I know you who you are: the Holy One of God!”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be quiet, and come out of him!”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The unclean spirit, convulsing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They were all amazed, so that they questioned among themselves, saying, “What is this? A new teaching? For with authority he commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him!” <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The report of him went out immediately everywhere into all the region of Galilee and its surrounding area.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Immediately, when they had come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now Simon’s wife’s mother lay sick with a fever, and immediately they told him about her. <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He came and took her by the hand, and raised her up. The fever left her, and she served them. <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> At evening, when the sun had set, they brought to him all who were sick, and those who were possessed by demons. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> All the city was gathered together at the door. <a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He healed many who were sick with various diseases, and cast out many demons. He didn’t allow the demons to speak, because they knew him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Early in the morning, while it was still dark, he rose up and went out, and departed into a deserted place, and prayed there. <a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Simon and those who were with him followed after him; <a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and they found him, and told him, “Everyone is looking for you.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He said to them, “Let’s go elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also, because I came out for this reason.” <a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out demons.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> A leper came to him, begging him, kneeling down to him, and saying to him, “If you want to, you can make me clean.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Being moved with compassion, he stretched out his hand, and touched him, and said to him, “I want to. Be made clean.” <a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> When he had said this, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean. <a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He strictly warned him, and immediately sent him out, <a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and said to him, “See you say nothing to anybody, but go show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony to them.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But he went out, and began to proclaim it much, and to spread about the matter, so that Jesus could no more openly enter into a city, but was outside in desert places: and they came to him from everywhere.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Malachi 3:1</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Isaiah 40:3</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, immersing</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>The Greek word (en) translated here as “in” could also be translated as “with” in some contexts.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>