<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He entered again into the synagogue, and there was a man there who had his hand withered. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They watched him, whether he would heal him on the Sabbath day, that they might accuse him. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He said to the man who had his hand withered, “Stand up.” <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He said to them, “Is it lawful on the Sabbath day to do good, or to do harm? To save a life, or to kill?” But they were silent. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When he had looked around at them with anger, being grieved at the hardening of their hearts, he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.”  He stretched it out, and his hand was restored as healthy as the other. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The Pharisees went out, and immediately conspired with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus withdrew to the sea with his disciples, and a great multitude followed him from Galilee, from Judea, <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> from Jerusalem, from Idumaea, beyond the Jordan, and those from around Tyre and Sidon. A great multitude, hearing what great things he did, came to him. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He spoke to his disciples that a little boat should stay near him because of the crowd, so that they wouldn’t press on him. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he had healed many, so that as many as had diseases pressed on him that they might touch him. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The unclean spirits, whenever they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, “You are the Son of God!” <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He sternly warned them that they should not make him known.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He went up into the mountain, and called to himself those whom he wanted, and they went to him. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He appointed twelve, that they might be with him, and that he might send them out to preach, <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and to have authority to heal sicknesses and to cast out demons: <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Simon, to whom he gave the name Peter; <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> James the son of Zebedee; John, the brother of James, and he called them Boanerges, which means, Sons of Thunder; <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Andrew; Philip; Bartholomew; Matthew; Thomas; James, the son of Alphaeus; Thaddaeus; Simon the Zealot; <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.</p>

<p>He came into a house. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The multitude came together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When his friends heard it, they went out to seize him: for they said, “He is insane.” <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The scribes who came down from Jerusalem said, “He has Beelzebul,” and, “By the prince of the demons he casts out the demons.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He summoned them, and said to them in parables, “How can Satan cast out Satan? <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If Satan has risen up against himself, and is divided, he can’t stand, but has an end. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But no one can enter into the house of the strong man to plunder, unless he first binds the strong man; and then he will plunder his house. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Most certainly I tell you, all sins of the descendants of man will be forgiven, including their blasphemies with which they may blaspheme; <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but whoever may blaspheme against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is subject to eternal condemnation.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> —because they said, “He has an unclean spirit.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> His mother and his brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to him, calling him. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> A multitude was sitting around him, and they told him, “Behold, your mother, your brothers, and your sisters<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> are outside looking for you.”</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He answered them, “Who are my mother and my brothers?” <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Looking around at those who sat around him, he said, “Behold, my mother and my brothers! <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whoever does the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>NU reads, guilty of an eternal sin.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>TR omits “your sisters”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>