<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Meanwhile, when a multitude of many thousands had gathered together, so much so that they trampled on each other, he began to tell his disciples first of all, “Beware of the yeast of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But there is nothing covered up, that will not be revealed, nor hidden, that will not be known. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore whatever you have said in the darkness will be heard in the light. What you have spoken in the ear in the inner rooms will be proclaimed on the housetops.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> “I tell you, my friends, don’t be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I will warn you whom you should fear. Fear him, who after he has killed, has power to cast into Gehenna.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Yes, I tell you, fear him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> “Aren’t five sparrows sold for two assaria coins<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> ? Not one of them is forgotten by God. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the very hairs of your head are all counted. Therefore don’t be afraid. You are of more value than many sparrows.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “I tell you, everyone who confesses me before men, him will the Son of Man also confess before the angels of God; <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but he who denies me in the presence of men will be denied in the presence of the angels of God. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Everyone who speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but those who blaspheme against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When they bring you before the synagogues, the rulers, and the authorities, don’t be anxious how or what you will answer, or what you will say; <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that same hour what you must say.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> One of the multitude said to him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But he said to him, “Man, who made me a judge or an arbitrator over you?” <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He said to them, “Beware! Keep yourselves from covetousness, for a man’s life doesn’t consist of the abundance of the things which he possesses.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He spoke a parable to them, saying, “The ground of a certain rich man produced abundantly. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He reasoned within himself, saying, ‘What will I do, because I don’t have room to store my crops?’ <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He said, ‘This is what I will do. I will pull down my barns, and build bigger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I will tell my soul, “Soul, you have many goods laid up for many years. Take your ease, eat, drink, be merry.”’</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> “But God said to him, ‘You foolish one, tonight your soul is required of you. The things which you have prepared—whose will they be?’ <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So is he who lays up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He said to his disciples, “Therefore I tell you, don’t be anxious for your life, what you will eat, nor yet for your body, what you will wear. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothing. <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Consider the ravens: they don’t sow, they don’t reap, they have no warehouse or barn, and God feeds them. How much more valuable are you than birds! <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Which of you by being anxious can add a cubit<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> to his height? <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If then you aren’t able to do even the least things, why are you anxious about the rest? <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Consider the lilies, how they grow. They don’t toil, neither do they spin; yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if this is how God clothes the grass in the field, which today exists, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith? <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Don’t seek what you will eat or what you will drink; neither be anxious. <a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For the nations of the world seek after all of these things, but your Father knows that you need these things. <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But seek God’s Kingdom, and all these things will be added to you. <a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Don’t be afraid, little flock, for it is your Father’s good pleasure to give you the Kingdom. <a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Sell that which you have, and give gifts to the needy. Make for yourselves purses which don’t grow old, a treasure in the heavens that doesn’t fail, where no thief approaches, neither moth destroys. <a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> “Let your waist be dressed and your lamps burning. <a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Be like men watching for their lord, when he returns from the marriage feast; that, when he comes and knocks, they may immediately open to him. <a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Blessed are those servants, whom the lord will find watching when he comes. Most certainly I tell you, that he will dress himself, and make them recline, and will come and serve them. <a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> They will be blessed if he comes in the second or third watch, and finds them so. <a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But know this, that if the master of the house had known in what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, and not allowed his house to be broken into. <a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Therefore be ready also, for the Son of Man is coming in an hour that you don’t expect him.”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Peter said to him, “Lord, are you telling this parable to us, or to everybody?”</p>

<p><a id="c12_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The Lord said, “Who then is the faithful and wise steward, whom his lord will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the right times? <a id="c12_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Blessed is that servant whom his lord will find doing so when he comes. <a id="c12_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Truly I tell you, that he will set him over all that he has. <a id="c12_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But if that servant says in his heart, ‘My lord delays his coming,’ and begins to beat the menservants and the maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken, <a id="c12_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> then the lord of that servant will come in a day when he isn’t expecting him, and in an hour that he doesn’t know, and will cut him in two, and place his portion with the unfaithful. <a id="c12_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> That servant, who knew his lord’s will, and didn’t prepare, nor do what he wanted, will be beaten with many stripes, <a id="c12_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> but he who didn’t know, and did things worthy of stripes, will be beaten with few stripes. To whomever much is given, of him will much be required; and to whom much was entrusted, of him more will be asked.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> “I came to throw fire on the earth. I wish it were already kindled. <a id="c12_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But I have a baptism to be baptized with, and how distressed I am until it is accomplished! <a id="c12_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Do you think that I have come to give peace in the earth? I tell you, no, but rather division. <a id="c12_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> For from now on, there will be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three. <a id="c12_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> They will be divided, father against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against her mother; mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law, and daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c12_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> He said to the multitudes also, “When you see a cloud rising from the west, immediately you say, ‘A shower is coming,’ and so it happens. <a id="c12_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> When a south wind blows, you say, ‘There will be a scorching heat,’ and it happens. <a id="c12_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of the earth and the sky, but how is it that you don’t interpret this time? <a id="c12_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Why don’t you judge for yourselves what is right? <a id="c12_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> For when you are going with your adversary before the magistrate, try diligently on the way to be released from him, lest perhaps he drag you to the judge, and the judge deliver you to the officer, and the officer throw you into prison. <a id="c12_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> I tell you, you will by no means get out of there, until you have paid the very last penny.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> ”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, Hell</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>An assarion was a small copper coin worth about an hour’s wages for an agricultural laborer.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>A cubit is the length from the tip of the middle finger to the elbow on a man’s arm, or about 18 inches or 46 centimeters.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Micah 7:6</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>literally, lepton. A lepton is a very small brass Jewish coin worth half a Roman quadrans each, which is worth a quarter of the copper assarion. Lepta are worth less than 1% of an agricultural worker’s daily wages.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>