<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When he finished praying in a certain place, one of his disciples said to him, “Lord, teach us to pray, just as John also taught his disciples.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He said to them, “When you pray, say,</p>

<p>‘Our Father in heaven,</p>

<p>may your name be kept holy.</p>

<p>May your Kingdom come.</p>

<p>May your will be done on earth, as it is in heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Give us day by day our daily bread.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Forgive us our sins,</p>

<p>for we ourselves also forgive everyone who is indebted to us.</p>

<p>Bring us not into temptation,</p>

<p>but deliver us from the evil one.’”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He said to them, “Which of you, if you go to a friend at midnight, and tell him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves of bread, <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for a friend of mine has come to me from a journey, and I have nothing to set before him,’ <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and he from within will answer and say, ‘Don’t bother me. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I can’t get up and give it to you’? <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I tell you, although he will not rise and give it to him because he is his friend, yet because of his persistence, he will get up and give him as many as he needs.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> “I tell you, keep asking, and it will be given you. Keep seeking, and you will find. Keep knocking, and it will be opened to you. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. To him who knocks it will be opened.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Which of you fathers, if your son asks for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, he won’t give him a snake instead of a fish, will he? <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Or if he asks for an egg, he won’t give him a scorpion, will he? <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He was casting out a demon, and it was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke; and the multitudes marveled. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But some of them said, “He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the prince of the demons.” <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Others, testing him, sought from him a sign from heaven. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation. A house divided against itself falls. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore will they be your judges. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But if I by God’s finger cast out demons, then God’s Kingdom has come to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> “When the strong man, fully armed, guards his own dwelling, his goods are safe. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But when someone stronger attacks him and overcomes him, he takes from him his whole armor in which he trusted, and divides his plunder.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “He that is not with me is against me. He who doesn’t gather with me scatters. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The unclean spirit, when he has gone out of the man, passes through dry places, seeking rest, and finding none, he says, ‘I will turn back to my house from which I came out.’ <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When he returns, he finds it swept and put in order. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then he goes, and takes seven other spirits more evil than himself, and they enter in and dwell there. The last state of that man becomes worse than the first.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> It came to pass, as he said these things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, and said to him, “Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts which nursed you!”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But he said, “On the contrary, blessed are those who hear the word of God, and keep it.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When the multitudes were gathering together to him, he began to say, “This is an evil generation. It seeks after a sign. No sign will be given to it but the sign of Jonah, the prophet. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For even as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so will also the Son of Man be to this generation. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The Queen of the South will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and will condemn them: for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, one greater than Solomon is here. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The men of Nineveh will stand up in the judgment with this generation, and will condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, one greater than Jonah is here.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> “No one, when he has lit a lamp, puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand, that those who come in may see the light. <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The lamp of the body is the eye. Therefore when your eye is good, your whole body is also full of light; but when it is evil, your body also is full of darkness. <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Therefore see whether the light that is in you isn’t darkness. <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> If therefore your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly full of light, as when the lamp with its bright shining gives you light.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Now as he spoke, a certain Pharisee asked him to dine with him. He went in, and sat at the table. <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> When the Pharisee saw it, he marveled that he had not first washed himself before dinner. <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> The Lord said to him, “Now you Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the platter, but your inward part is full of extortion and wickedness. <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> You foolish ones, didn’t he who made the outside make the inside also? <a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> But give for gifts to the needy those things which are within, and behold, all things will be clean to you. <a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> But woe to you Pharisees! For you tithe mint and rue and every herb, but you bypass justice and God’s love. You ought to have done these, and not to have left the other undone. <a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seats in the synagogues, and the greetings in the marketplaces. <a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like hidden graves, and the men who walk over them don’t know it.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> One of the lawyers answered him, “Teacher, in saying this you insult us also.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He said, “Woe to you lawyers also! For you load men with burdens that are difficult to carry, and you yourselves won’t even lift one finger to help carry those burdens. <a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets, and your fathers killed them. <a id="c11_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> So you testify and consent to the works of your fathers. For they killed them, and you build their tombs. <a id="c11_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Therefore also the wisdom of God said, ‘I will send to them prophets and apostles; and some of them they will kill and persecute, <a id="c11_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> that the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation; <a id="c11_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zachariah, who perished between the altar and the sanctuary.’ Yes, I tell you, it will be required of this generation. <a id="c11_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Woe to you lawyers! For you took away the key of knowledge. You didn’t enter in yourselves, and those who were entering in, you hindered.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> As he said these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to be terribly angry, and to draw many things out of him; <a id="c11_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> lying in wait for him, and seeking to catch him in something he might say, that they might accuse him.</p>

</body>
</html>