<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now there were some present at the same time who told him about the Galileans, whose blood Pilate had mixed with their sacrifices. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jesus answered them, “Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered such things? <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I tell you, no, but unless you repent, you will all perish in the same way. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Or those eighteen, on whom the tower in Siloam fell, and killed them; do you think that they were worse offenders than all the men who dwell in Jerusalem? <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I tell you, no, but, unless you repent, you will all perish in the same way.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He spoke this parable. “A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it, and found none. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He said to the vine dresser, ‘Behold, these three years I have come looking for fruit on this fig tree, and found none. Cut it down. Why does it waste the soil?’ <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He answered, ‘Lord, leave it alone this year also, until I dig around it, and fertilize it. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If it bears fruit, fine; but if not, after that, you can cut it down.’”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath day. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, there was a woman who had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and she was bent over, and could in no way straighten herself up. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When Jesus saw her, he called her, and said to her, “Woman, you are freed from your infirmity.” <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He laid his hands on her, and immediately she stood up straight, and glorified God.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The ruler of the synagogue, being indignant because Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, said to the multitude, “There are six days in which men ought to work. Therefore come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day!”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore the Lord answered him, “You hypocrites! Doesn’t each one of you free his ox or his donkey from the stall on the Sabbath, and lead him away to water? <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan had bound eighteen long years, be freed from this bondage on the Sabbath day?”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> As he said these things, all his adversaries were disappointed, and all the multitude rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He said, “What is God’s Kingdom like? To what shall I compare it? <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and put in his own garden. It grew, and became a large tree, and the birds of the sky live in its branches.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Again he said, “To what shall I compare God’s Kingdom? <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is like yeast, which a woman took and hid in three measures<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of flour, until it was all leavened.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He went on his way through cities and villages, teaching, and traveling on to Jerusalem. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> One said to him, “Lord, are they few who are saved?”</p>

<p>He said to them, <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> “Strive to enter in by the narrow door, for many, I tell you, will seek to enter in, and will not be able. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When once the master of the house has risen up, and has shut the door, and you begin to stand outside, and to knock at the door, saying, ‘Lord, Lord, open to us!’ then he will answer and tell you, ‘I don’t know you or where you come from.’ <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then you will begin to say, ‘We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.’ <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He will say, ‘I tell you, I don’t know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity.’ <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when you see Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and all the prophets, in God’s Kingdom, and yourselves being thrown outside. <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> They will come from the east, west, north, and south, and will sit down in God’s Kingdom. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Behold, there are some who are last who will be first, and there are some who are first who will be last.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> On that same day, some Pharisees came, saying to him, “Get out of here, and go away, for Herod wants to kill you.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He said to them, “Go and tell that fox, ‘Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I complete my mission. <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Nevertheless I must go on my way today and tomorrow and the next day, for it can’t be that a prophet perish outside of Jerusalem.’</p>

<p><a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> “Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that kills the prophets, and stones those who are sent to her! How often I wanted to gather your children together, like a hen gathers her own brood under her wings, and you refused! <a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Behold, your house is left to you desolate. I tell you, you will not see me, until you say, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!’”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>literally, three sata 3 sata is about 39 liters or a bit more than a bushel</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Psalm 118:26</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>