<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the feast of unleavened bread, which is called the Passover, was approaching. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The chief priests and the scribes sought how they might put him to death, for they feared the people. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Satan entered into Judas, who was also called Iscariot, who was counted with the twelve. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He went away, and talked with the chief priests and captains about how he might deliver him to them. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They were glad, and agreed to give him money. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He consented, and sought an opportunity to deliver him to them in the absence of the multitude. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The day of unleavened bread came, on which the Passover must be sacrificed. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They said to him, “Where do you want us to prepare?”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He said to them, “Behold, when you have entered into the city, a man carrying a pitcher of water will meet you. Follow him into the house which he enters. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Tell the master of the house, ‘The Teacher says to you, “Where is the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?”’ <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He will show you a large, furnished upper room. Make preparations there.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They went, found things as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When the hour had come, he sat down with the twelve apostles. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He said to them, “I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer, <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for I tell you, I will no longer by any means eat of it until it is fulfilled in God’s Kingdom.” <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He received a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, “Take this, and share it among yourselves, <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for I tell you, I will not drink at all again from the fruit of the vine, until God’s Kingdom comes.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and gave to them, saying, “This is my body which is given for you. Do this in memory of me.” <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Likewise, he took the cup after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But behold, the hand of him who betrays me is with me on the table. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Son of Man indeed goes, as it has been determined, but woe to that man through whom he is betrayed!”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They began to question among themselves, which of them it was who would do this thing. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> There arose also a contention among them, which of them was considered to be greatest. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He said to them, “The kings of the nations lord it over them, and those who have authority over them are called ‘benefactors.’ <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But not so with you. But one who is the greater among you, let him become as the younger, and one who is governing, as one who serves. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For who is greater, one who sits at the table, or one who serves? Isn’t it he who sits at the table? But I am among you as one who serves. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But you are those who have continued with me in my trials. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I confer on you a kingdom, even as my Father conferred on me, <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> that you may eat and drink at my table in my Kingdom. You will sit on thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The Lord said, “Simon, Simon, behold, Satan asked to have you, that he might sift you as wheat, <a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> but I prayed for you, that your faith wouldn’t fail. You, when once you have turned again, establish your brothers.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He said to him, “Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death!”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He said, “I tell you, Peter, the rooster will by no means crow today until you deny that you know me three times.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He said to them, “When I sent you out without purse, and wallet, and shoes, did you lack anything?”</p>

<p>They said, “Nothing.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then he said to them, “But now, whoever has a purse, let him take it, and likewise a wallet. Whoever has none, let him sell his cloak, and buy a sword. <a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For I tell you that this which is written must still be fulfilled in me: ‘He was counted with transgressors.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> For that which concerns me has an end.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> They said, “Lord, behold, here are two swords.”</p>

<p>He said to them, “That is enough.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He came out, and went, as his custom was, to the Mount of Olives. His disciples also followed him. <a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> When he was at the place, he said to them, “Pray that you don’t enter into temptation.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He was withdrawn from them about a stone’s throw, and he knelt down and prayed, <a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> saying, “Father, if you are willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> An angel from heaven appeared to him, strengthening him. <a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Being in agony he prayed more earnestly. His sweat became like great drops of blood falling down on the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> When he rose up from his prayer, he came to the disciples, and found them sleeping because of grief, <a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> and said to them, “Why do you sleep? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> While he was still speaking, behold, a multitude, and he who was called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He came near to Jesus to kiss him. <a id="c22_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> But Jesus said to him, “Judas, do you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> When those who were around him saw what was about to happen, they said to him, “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?” <a id="c22_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> A certain one of them struck the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> But Jesus answered, “Let me at least do this”—and he touched his ear, and healed him. <a id="c22_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Jesus said to the chief priests, captains of the temple, and elders, who had come against him, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs? <a id="c22_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> When I was with you in the temple daily, you didn’t stretch out your hands against me. But this is your hour, and the power of darkness.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> They seized him, and led him away, and brought him into the high priest’s house. But Peter followed from a distance. <a id="c22_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> When they had kindled a fire in the middle of the courtyard, and had sat down together, Peter sat among them. <a id="c22_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> A certain servant girl saw him as he sat in the light, and looking intently at him, said, “This man also was with him.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> He denied Jesus, saying, “Woman, I don’t know him.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> After a little while someone else saw him, and said, “You also are one of them!”</p>

<p>But Peter answered, “Man, I am not!”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> After about one hour passed, another confidently affirmed, saying, “Truly this man also was with him, for he is a Galilean!”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> But Peter said, “Man, I don’t know what you are talking about!” Immediately, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed. <a id="c22_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> The Lord turned, and looked at Peter. Then Peter remembered the Lord’s word, how he said to him, “Before the rooster crows you will deny me three times.” <a id="c22_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> He went out, and wept bitterly.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> The men who held Jesus mocked him and beat him. <a id="c22_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Having blindfolded him, they struck him on the face and asked him, “Prophesy! Who is the one who struck you?” <a id="c22_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> They spoke many other things against him, insulting him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> As soon as it was day, the assembly of the elders of the people was gathered together, both chief priests and scribes, and they led him away into their council, saying, <a id="c22_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> “If you are the Christ, tell us.”</p>

<p>But he said to them, “If I tell you, you won’t believe, <a id="c22_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> and if I ask, you will in no way answer me or let me go. <a id="c22_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> From now on, the Son of Man will be seated at the right hand of the power of God.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> They all said, “Are you then the Son of God?”</p>

<p>He said to them, “You say it, because I am.”</p>

<p><a id="c22_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> They said, “Why do we need any more witness? For we ourselves have heard from his own mouth!”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word for “brothers” here may be also correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Isaiah 53:12</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>