<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The whole company of them rose up and brought him before Pilate. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They began to accuse him, saying, “We found this man perverting the nation, forbidding paying taxes to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ, a king.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Pilate asked him, “Are you the King of the Jews?”</p>

<p>He answered him, “So you say.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Pilate said to the chief priests and the multitudes, “I find no basis for a charge against this man.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they insisted, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee even to this place.” <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But when Pilate heard Galilee mentioned, he asked if the man was a Galilean. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When he found out that he was in Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem during those days.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceedingly glad, for he had wanted to see him for a long time, because he had heard many things about him. He hoped to see some miracle done by him. <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He questioned him with many words, but he gave no answers. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The chief priests and the scribes stood, vehemently accusing him. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Herod with his soldiers humiliated him and mocked him. Dressing him in luxurious clothing, they sent him back to Pilate. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that very day, for before that they were enemies with each other.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Pilate called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and said to them, “You brought this man to me as one that perverts the people, and see, I have examined him before you, and found no basis for a charge against this man concerning those things of which you accuse him. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Neither has Herod, for I sent you to him, and see, nothing worthy of death has been done by him. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will therefore chastise him and release him.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now he had to release one prisoner to them at the feast.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But they all cried out together, saying, “Away with this man! Release to us Barabbas!”— <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> one who was thrown into prison for a certain revolt in the city, and for murder.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Pilate spoke to them again, wanting to release Jesus, <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but they shouted, saying, “Crucify! Crucify him!”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He said to them the third time, “Why? What evil has this man done? I have found no capital crime in him. I will therefore chastise him and release him.” <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But they were urgent with loud voices, asking that he might be crucified. Their voices and the voices of the chief priests prevailed. <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Pilate decreed that what they asked for should be done. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He released him who had been thrown into prison for insurrection and murder, for whom they asked, but he delivered Jesus up to their will.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When they led him away, they grabbed one Simon of Cyrene, coming from the country, and laid on him the cross, to carry it after Jesus. <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> A great multitude of the people followed him, including women who also mourned and lamented him. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But Jesus, turning to them, said, “Daughters of Jerusalem, don’t weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For behold, the days are coming in which they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren, the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never nursed.’ <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then they will begin to tell the mountains, ‘Fall on us!’ and tell the hills, ‘Cover us.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For if they do these things in the green tree, what will be done in the dry?”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> There were also others, two criminals, led with him to be put to death. <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When they came to the place that is called The Skull, they crucified him there with the criminals, one on the right and the other on the left.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they don’t know what they are doing.”</p>

<p>Dividing his garments among them, they cast lots. <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The people stood watching. The rulers with them also scoffed at him, saying, “He saved others. Let him save himself, if this is the Christ of God, his chosen one!”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The soldiers also mocked him, coming to him and offering him vinegar, <a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and saying, “If you are the King of the Jews, save yourself!”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> An inscription was also written over him in letters of Greek, Latin, and Hebrew: “THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> One of the criminals who was hanged insulted him, saying, “If you are the Christ, save yourself and us!”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But the other answered, and rebuking him said, “Don’t you even fear God, seeing you are under the same condemnation? <a id="c23_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And we indeed justly, for we receive the due reward for our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong.” <a id="c23_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> He said to Jesus, “Lord, remember me when you come into your Kingdom.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Jesus said to him, “Assuredly I tell you, today you will be with me in Paradise.”</p>

<p><a id="c23_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> It was now about the sixth hour,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a>  <a id="c23_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was torn in two. <a id="c23_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Jesus, crying with a loud voice, said, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!” Having said this, he breathed his last.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> When the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, “Certainly this was a righteous man.” <a id="c23_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> All the multitudes that came together to see this, when they saw the things that were done, returned home beating their breasts. <a id="c23_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> All his acquaintances, and the women who followed with him from Galilee, stood at a distance, watching these things.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Behold, a man named Joseph, who was a member of the council, a good and righteous man <a id="c23_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> (he had not consented to their counsel and deed), from Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who was also waiting for God’s Kingdom: <a id="c23_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> this man went to Pilate, and asked for Jesus’ body. <a id="c23_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> He took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was cut in stone, where no one had ever been laid. <a id="c23_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> It was the day of the Preparation, and the Sabbath was drawing near. <a id="c23_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> The women, who had come with him out of Galilee, followed after, and saw the tomb, and how his body was laid. <a id="c23_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> They returned, and prepared spices and ointments. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>NU omits verse 17.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hosea 10:8</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Time was counted from sunrise, so the sixth hour was about noon.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>3:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>