<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He said to the disciples, “It is impossible that no occasions of stumbling should come, but woe to him through whom they come! <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It would be better for him if a millstone were hung around his neck, and he were thrown into the sea, rather than that he should cause one of these little ones to stumble. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be careful. If your brother sins against you, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If he sins against you seven times in the day, and seven times returns, saying, ‘I repent,’ you shall forgive him.”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith.”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The Lord said, “If you had faith like a grain of mustard seed, you would tell this sycamore tree, ‘Be uprooted, and be planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But who is there among you, having a servant plowing or keeping sheep, that will say, when he comes in from the field, ‘Come immediately and sit down at the table,’ <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and will not rather tell him, ‘Prepare my supper, clothe yourself properly, and serve me, while I eat and drink. Afterward you shall eat and drink’? <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Does he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded? I think not. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Even so you also, when you have done all the things that are commanded you, say, ‘We are unworthy servants. We have done our duty.’”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As he was on his way to Jerusalem, he was passing along the borders of Samaria and Galilee. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As he entered into a certain village, ten men who were lepers met him, who stood at a distance. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They lifted up their voices, saying, “Jesus, Master, have mercy on us!”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When he saw them, he said to them, “Go and show yourselves to the priests.” As they went, they were cleansed. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> One of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He fell on his face at Jesus’ feet, giving him thanks; and he was a Samaritan. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jesus answered, “Weren’t the ten cleansed? But where are the nine? <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Were there none found who returned to give glory to God, except this stranger?” <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then he said to him, “Get up, and go your way. Your faith has healed you.”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Being asked by the Pharisees when God’s Kingdom would come, he answered them, “God’s Kingdom doesn’t come with observation; <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> neither will they say, ‘Look, here!’ or, ‘Look, there!’ for behold, God’s Kingdom is within you.”</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He said to the disciples, “The days will come, when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it. <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They will tell you, ‘Look, here!’ or ‘Look, there!’ Don’t go away, nor follow after them, <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for as the lightning, when it flashes out of the one part under the sky, shines to the other part under the sky; so will the Son of Man be in his day. <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But first, he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. <a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> As it was in the days of Noah, even so will it be also in the days of the Son of Man. <a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They ate, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ship, and the flood came, and destroyed them all. <a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Likewise, even as it was in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built; <a id="c17_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but in the day that Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and sulfur from the sky, and destroyed them all. <a id="c17_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> It will be the same way in the day that the Son of Man is revealed. <a id="c17_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> In that day, he who will be on the housetop, and his goods in the house, let him not go down to take them away. Let him who is in the field likewise not turn back. <a id="c17_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Remember Lot’s wife! <a id="c17_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Whoever seeks to save his life loses it, but whoever loses his life preserves it. <a id="c17_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I tell you, in that night there will be two people in one bed. The one will be taken, and the other will be left. <a id="c17_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> There will be two grinding grain together. One will be taken, and the other will be left.” <a id="c17_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> ***#***#### Some Greek manuscripts add: “Two will be in the field: the one taken, and the other left.” ####</p>

<p><a id="c17_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> They, answering, asked him, “Where, Lord?”</p>

<p>He said to them, “Where the body is, there will the vultures also be gathered together.”</p>

</body>
</html>