<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things, Jesus was walking in Galilee, for he wouldn’t walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill him. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the feast of the Jews, the Feast of Booths, was at hand. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His brothers therefore said to him, “Depart from here, and go into Judea, that your disciples also may see your works which you do. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For no one does anything in secret, and himself seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, reveal yourself to the world.” <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For even his brothers didn’t believe in him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus therefore said to them, “My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The world can’t hate you, but it hates me, because I testify about it, that its works are evil. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You go up to the feast. I am not yet going up to this feast, because my time is not yet fulfilled.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Having said these things to them, he stayed in Galilee. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But when his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly, but as it were in secret. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Jews therefore sought him at the feast, and said, “Where is he?” <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There was much murmuring among the multitudes concerning him. Some said, “He is a good man.” Others said, “Not so, but he leads the multitude astray.” <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet no one spoke openly of him for fear of the Jews. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But when it was now the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The Jews therefore marveled, saying, “How does this man know letters, having never been educated?”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus therefore answered them, “My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If anyone desires to do his will, he will know about the teaching, whether it is from God, or if I am speaking from myself. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He who speaks from himself seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and no unrighteousness is in him. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Didn’t Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keeps the law? Why do you seek to kill me?”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The multitude answered, “You have a demon! Who seeks to kill you?”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus answered them, “I did one work, and you all marvel because of it. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Moses has given you circumcision (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers), and on the Sabbath you circumcise a boy. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If a boy receives circumcision on the Sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me, because I made a man completely healthy on the Sabbath? <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Don’t judge according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore some of them of Jerusalem said, “Isn’t this he whom they seek to kill? <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Behold, he speaks openly, and they say nothing to him. Can it be that the rulers indeed know that this is truly the Christ? <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> However we know where this man comes from, but when the Christ comes, no one will know where he comes from.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, “You both know me, and know where I am from. I have not come of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom you don’t know. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I know him, because I am from him, and he sent me.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They sought therefore to take him; but no one laid a hand on him, because his hour had not yet come. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But of the multitude, many believed in him. They said, “When the Christ comes, he won’t do more signs than those which this man has done, will he?” <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring these things concerning him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to arrest him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then Jesus said, “I will be with you a little while longer, then I go to him who sent me. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> You will seek me, and won’t find me; and where I am, you can’t come.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The Jews therefore said among themselves, “Where will this man go that we won’t find him? Will he go to the Dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> What is this word that he said, ‘You will seek me, and won’t find me; and where I am, you can’t come’?”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Now on the last and greatest day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, “If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink! <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He who believes in me, as the Scripture has said, from within him will flow rivers of living water.” <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But he said this about the Spirit, which those believing in him were to receive. For the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus wasn’t yet glorified.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Many of the multitude therefore, when they heard these words, said, “This is truly the prophet.” <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Others said, “This is the Christ.” But some said, “What, does the Christ come out of Galilee? <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Hasn’t the Scripture said that the Christ comes of the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of David,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and from Bethlehem,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> the village where David was?” <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> So there arose a division in the multitude because of him. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Some of them would have arrested him, but no one laid hands on him. <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, “Why didn’t you bring him?”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The officers answered, “No man ever spoke like this man!”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> The Pharisees therefore answered them, “You aren’t also led astray, are you? <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Have any of the rulers believed in him, or of the Pharisees? <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> But this multitude that doesn’t know the law is accursed.”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Nicodemus (he who came to him by night, being one of them) said to them, <a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> “Does our law judge a man, unless it first hears from him personally and knows what he does?”</p>

<p><a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> They answered him, “Are you also from Galilee? Search, and see that no prophet has arisen out of Galilee.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Everyone went to his own house,</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>2 Samuel 7:12</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Micah 5:2</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>See Isaiah 9:1 and Matthew 4:13-16. </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>