<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Don’t let your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In my Father’s house are many homes. If it weren’t so, I would have told you. I am going to prepare a place for you. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and will receive you to myself; that where I am, you may be there also. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Where I go, you know, and you know the way.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thomas said to him, “Lord, we don’t know where you are going. How can we know the way?”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus said to him, “I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father, except through me. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If you had known me, you would have known my Father also. From now on, you know him, and have seen him.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Philip said to him, “Lord, show us the Father, and that will be enough for us.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jesus said to him, “Have I been with you such a long time, and do you not know me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. How do you say, ‘Show us the Father?’ <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Don’t you believe that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? The words that I tell you, I speak not from myself; but the Father who lives in me does his works. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me; or else believe me for the very works’ sake. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Most certainly I tell you, he who believes in me, the works that I do, he will do also; and he will do greater works than these, because I am going to my Father. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whatever you will ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If you will ask anything in my name, I will do it. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If you love me, keep my commandments. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will pray to the Father, and he will give you another Counselor,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> that he may be with you forever,— <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the Spirit of truth, whom the world can’t receive; for it doesn’t see him, neither knows him. You know him, for he lives with you, and will be in you. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will not leave you orphans. I will come to you. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yet a little while, and the world will see me no more; but you will see me. Because I live, you will live also. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In that day you will know that I am in my Father, and you in me, and I in you. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> One who has my commandments, and keeps them, that person is one who loves me. One who loves me will be loved by my Father, and I will love him, and will reveal myself to him.”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Judas (not Iscariot) said to him, “Lord, what has happened that you are about to reveal yourself to us, and not to the world?”</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Jesus answered him, “If a man loves me, he will keep my word. My Father will love him, and we will come to him, and make our home with him. <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He who doesn’t love me doesn’t keep my words. The word which you hear isn’t mine, but the Father’s who sent me. <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have said these things to you, while still living with you. <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But the Counselor, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things, and will remind you of all that I said to you. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you; not as the world gives, give I to you. Don’t let your heart be troubled, neither let it be fearful. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You heard how I told you, ‘I go away, and I come to you.’ If you loved me, you would have rejoiced, because I said ‘I am going to my Father;’ for the Father is greater than I. <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Now I have told you before it happens so that, when it happens, you may believe. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will no more speak much with you, for the prince of the world comes, and he has nothing in me. <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father commanded me, even so I do. Arise, let us go from here.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Greek παρακλητον: Counselor, Helper, Intercessor, Advocate, and Comforter.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>