<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “Most certainly, I tell you, one who doesn’t enter by the door into the sheep fold, but climbs up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But one who enters in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whenever he brings out his own sheep, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him; for they don’t know the voice of strangers.” <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus spoke this parable to them, but they didn’t understand what he was telling them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus therefore said to them again, “Most certainly, I tell you, I am the sheep’s door. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep didn’t listen to them. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I am the door. If anyone enters in by me, he will be saved, and will go in and go out, and will find pasture. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The thief only comes to steal, kill, and destroy. I came that they may have life, and may have it abundantly. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I am the good shepherd.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He who is a hired hand, and not a shepherd, who doesn’t own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, leaves the sheep, and flees. The wolf snatches the sheep, and scatters them. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The hired hand flees because he is a hired hand, and doesn’t care for the sheep. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and I’m known by my own; <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> even as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. I lay down my life for the sheep. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have other sheep, which are not of this fold.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> I must bring them also, and they will hear my voice. They will become one flock with one shepherd. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore the Father loves me, because I lay down my life,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> that I may take it again. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down by myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. I received this commandment from my Father.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore a division arose again among the Jews because of these words. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Many of them said, “He has a demon, and is insane! Why do you listen to him?” <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Others said, “These are not the sayings of one possessed by a demon. It isn’t possible for a demon to open the eyes of the blind, is it?”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It was the Feast of the Dedication<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> at Jerusalem. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple, in Solomon’s porch. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The Jews therefore came around him and said to him, “How long will you hold us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jesus answered them, “I told you, and you don’t believe. The works that I do in my Father’s name, these testify about me. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But you don’t believe, because you are not of my sheep, as I told you. <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I give eternal life to them. They will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all. No one is able to snatch them out of my Father’s hand. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I and the Father are one.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore Jews took up stones again to stone him. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Jesus answered them, “I have shown you many good works from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me?”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The Jews answered him, “We don’t stone you for a good work, but for blasphemy: because you, being a man, make yourself God.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus answered them, “Isn’t it written in your law, ‘I said, you are gods?’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a>  <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> If he called them gods, to whom the word of God came (and the Scripture can’t be broken), <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> do you say of him whom the Father sanctified and sent into the world, ‘You blaspheme,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God?’ <a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> If I don’t do the works of my Father, don’t believe me. <a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But if I do them, though you don’t believe me, believe the works; that you may know and believe that the Father is in me, and I in the Father.”</p>

<p><a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> They sought again to seize him, and he went out of their hand. <a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He went away again beyond the Jordan into the place where John was baptizing at first, and there he stayed. <a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Many came to him. They said, “John indeed did no sign, but everything that John said about this man is true.” <a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Many believed in him there.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Isaiah 40:11; Ezekiel 34:11-12,15,22</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Isaiah 56:8 </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Isaiah 53:7-8</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Exodus 4:11</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>The “Feast of the Dedication” is the Greek name for “Hanukkah”, a celebration of the rededication of the Temple.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Psalm 82:6</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>