<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “I am the true vine, and my Father is the farmer. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every branch in me that doesn’t bear fruit, he takes away. Every branch that bears fruit, he prunes, that it may bear more fruit. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You are already pruned clean because of the word which I have spoken to you. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Remain in me, and I in you. As the branch can’t bear fruit by itself, unless it remains in the vine, so neither can you, unless you remain in me. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I am the vine. You are the branches. He who remains in me, and I in him, the same bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If a man doesn’t remain in me, he is thrown out as a branch, and is withered; and they gather them, throw them into the fire, and they are burned. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If you remain in me, and my words remain in you, you will ask whatever you desire, and it will be done for you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> “In this is my Father glorified, that you bear much fruit; and so you will be my disciples. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Even as the Father has loved me, I also have loved you. Remain in my love. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If you keep my commandments, you will remain in my love; even as I have kept my Father’s commandments, and remain in his love. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have spoken these things to you, that my joy may remain in you, and that your joy may be made full.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “This is my commandment, that you love one another, even as I have loved you. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You are my friends, if you do whatever I command you. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> No longer do I call you servants, for the servant doesn’t know what his lord does. But I have called you friends, for everything that I heard from my Father, I have made known to you. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You didn’t choose me, but I chose you, and appointed you, that you should go and bear fruit, and that your fruit should remain; that whatever you will ask of the Father in my name, he may give it to you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “I command these things to you, that you may love one another. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If you were of the world, the world would love its own. But because you are not of the world, since I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Remember the word that I said to you: ‘A servant is not greater than his lord.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But all these things will they do to you for my name’s sake, because they don’t know him who sent me. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not have had sin; but now they have no excuse for their sin. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He who hates me, hates my Father also. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I hadn’t done among them the works which no one else did, they wouldn’t have had sin. But now have they seen and also hated both me and my Father. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But this happened so that the word may be fulfilled which was written in their law, ‘They hated me without a cause.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “When the Counselor<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> has come, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth, who proceeds from the Father, he will testify about me. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> You will also testify, because you have been with me from the beginning.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>John 13:16</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Psalms 35:19; 69:4</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Greek Parakletos: Counselor, Helper, Advocate, Intercessor, and Comforter.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>