<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now before the feast of the Passover, Jesus, knowing that his time had come that he would depart from this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> During supper, the devil having already put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray him, <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus, knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he came from God, and was going to God, <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> arose from supper, and laid aside his outer garments. He took a towel, and wrapped a towel around his waist. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then he poured water into the basin, and began to wash the disciples’ feet, and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then he came to Simon Peter. He said to him, “Lord, do you wash my feet?”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus answered him, “You don’t know what I am doing now, but you will understand later.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Peter said to him, “You will never wash my feet!”</p>

<p>Jesus answered him, “If I don’t wash you, you have no part with me.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head!”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus said to him, “Someone who has bathed only needs to have his feet washed, but is completely clean. You are clean, but not all of you.” <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he knew him who would betray him, therefore he said, “You are not all clean.” <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So when he had washed their feet, put his outer garment back on, and sat down again, he said to them, “Do you know what I have done to you? <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You call me, ‘Teacher’ and ‘Lord.’ You say so correctly, for so I am. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I then, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another’s feet. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For I have given you an example, that you also should do as I have done to you. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Most certainly I tell you, a servant is not greater than his lord, neither one who is sent greater than he who sent him. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I don’t speak concerning all of you. I know whom I have chosen. But that the Scripture may be fulfilled, ‘He who eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me.’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> From now on, I tell you before it happens, that when it happens, you may believe that I am he. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Most certainly I tell you, he who receives whomever I send, receives me; and he who receives me, receives him who sent me.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When Jesus had said this, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, “Most certainly I tell you that one of you will betray me.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The disciples looked at one another, perplexed about whom he spoke. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> One of his disciples, whom Jesus loved, was at the table, leaning against Jesus’ breast. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, and said to him, “Tell us who it is of whom he speaks.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He, leaning back, as he was, on Jesus’ breast, asked him, “Lord, who is it?”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jesus therefore answered, “It is he to whom I will give this piece of bread when I have dipped it.” So when he had dipped the piece of bread, he gave it to Judas, the son of Simon Iscariot. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> After the piece of bread, then Satan entered into him.</p>

<p>Then Jesus said to him, “What you do, do quickly.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now no man at the table knew why he said this to him. <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For some thought, because Judas had the money box, that Jesus said to him, “Buy what things we need for the feast,” or that he should give something to the poor. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore having received that morsel, he went out immediately. It was night.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> When he had gone out, Jesus said, “Now the Son of Man has been glorified, and God has been glorified in him. <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If God has been glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself, and he will glorify him immediately. <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Little children, I will be with you a little while longer. You will seek me, and as I said to the Jews, ‘Where I am going, you can’t come,’ so now I tell you. <a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also love one another. <a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, where are you going?”</p>

<p>Jesus answered, “Where I am going, you can’t follow now, but you will follow afterwards.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Peter said to him, “Lord, why can’t I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you.”</p>

<p><a id="c13_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus answered him, “Will you lay down your life for me? Most certainly I tell you, the rooster won’t crow until you have denied me three times.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Psalm 41:9</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>