<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So Pilate then took Jesus, and flogged him. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The soldiers twisted thorns into a crown, and put it on his head, and dressed him in a purple garment. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They kept saying, “Hail, King of the Jews!” and they kept slapping him.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then Pilate went out again, and said to them, “Behold, I bring him out to you, that you may know that I find no basis for a charge against him.”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jesus therefore came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple garment. Pilate said to them, “Behold, the man!”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When therefore the chief priests and the officers saw him, they shouted, saying, “Crucify! Crucify!”</p>

<p>Pilate said to them, “Take him yourselves, and crucify him, for I find no basis for a charge against him.”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The Jews answered him, “We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God.”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When therefore Pilate heard this saying, he was more afraid. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He entered into the Praetorium again, and said to Jesus, “Where are you from?” But Jesus gave him no answer. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Pilate therefore said to him, “Aren’t you speaking to me? Don’t you know that I have power to release you, and have power to crucify you?”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jesus answered, “You would have no power at all against me, unless it were given to you from above. Therefore he who delivered me to you has greater sin.”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> At this, Pilate was seeking to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying, “If you release this man, you aren’t Caesar’s friend! Everyone who makes himself a king speaks against Caesar!”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When Pilate therefore heard these words, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called “The Pavement”, but in Hebrew, “Gabbatha.” <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now it was the Preparation Day of the Passover, at about the sixth hour.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> He said to the Jews, “Behold, your King!”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They cried out, “Away with him! Away with him! Crucify him!”</p>

<p>Pilate said to them, “Shall I crucify your King?”</p>

<p>The chief priests answered, “We have no king but Caesar!”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So then he delivered him to them to be crucified. So they took Jesus and led him away. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He went out, bearing his cross, to the place called “The Place of a Skull”, which is called in Hebrew, “Golgotha”, <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> where they crucified him, and with him two others, on either side one, and Jesus in the middle. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Pilate wrote a title also, and put it on the cross. There was written, “JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS.” <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city; and it was written in Hebrew, in Latin, and in Greek. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The chief priests of the Jews therefore said to Pilate, “Don’t write, ‘The King of the Jews,’ but, ‘he said, “I am King of the Jews.”’”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Pilate answered, “What I have written, I have written.”</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also the coat. Now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then they said to one another, “Let’s not tear it, but cast lots for it to decide whose it will be,” that the Scripture might be fulfilled, which says,</p>

<p>“They parted my garments among them.</p>

<p>For my cloak they cast lots.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>Therefore the soldiers did these things. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But there were standing by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore when Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing there, he said to his mother, “Woman, behold, your son!” <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then he said to the disciple, “Behold, your mother!” From that hour, the disciple took her to his own home.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> After this, Jesus, seeing<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> that all things were now finished, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, said, “I am thirsty.” <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Now a vessel full of vinegar was set there; so they put a sponge full of the vinegar on hyssop, and held it at his mouth. <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, “It is finished.” He bowed his head, and gave up his spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore the Jews, because it was the Preparation Day, so that the bodies wouldn’t remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a special one), asked of Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. <a id="c19_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Therefore the soldiers came, and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who was crucified with him; <a id="c19_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> but when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was already dead, they didn’t break his legs. <a id="c19_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> However one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out. <a id="c19_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He who has seen has testified, and his testimony is true. He knows that he tells the truth, that you may believe. <a id="c19_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For these things happened, that the Scripture might be fulfilled, “A bone of him will not be broken.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a>  <a id="c19_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Again another Scripture says, “They will look on him whom they pierced.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c19_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> After these things, Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked of Pilate that he might take away Jesus’ body. Pilate gave him permission. He came therefore and took away his body. <a id="c19_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Nicodemus, who at first came to Jesus by night, also came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred Roman pounds.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a>  <a id="c19_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> So they took Jesus’ body, and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury. <a id="c19_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden. In the garden was a new tomb in which no man had ever yet been laid. <a id="c19_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Then because of the Jews’ Preparation Day (for the tomb was near at hand) they laid Jesus there.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“the sixth hour” would have been 6:00 a.m. according to the Roman timekeeping system, or noon for the Jewish timekeeping system in use, then. </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Psalm 22:18</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>NU, TR read “knowing” instead of “seeing” </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Exodus 12:46; Numbers 9:12; Psalm 34:20 </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Zechariah 12:10</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>100 Roman pounds of 12 ounces each, or about 72 pounds, or 33 Kilograms.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>