<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now a certain man was sick, Lazarus from Bethany, of the village of Mary and her sister, Martha. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It was that Mary who had anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother, Lazarus, was sick. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sisters therefore sent to him, saying, “Lord, behold, he for whom you have great affection is sick.” <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But when Jesus heard it, he said, “This sickness is not to death, but for the glory of God, that God’s Son may be glorified by it.” <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When therefore he heard that he was sick, he stayed two days in the place where he was. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then after this he said to the disciples, “Let’s go into Judea again.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The disciples told him, “Rabbi, the Jews were just trying to stone you, and are you going there again?”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jesus answered, “Aren’t there twelve hours of daylight? If a man walks in the day, he doesn’t stumble, because he sees the light of this world. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But if a man walks in the night, he stumbles, because the light isn’t in him.” <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He said these things, and after that, he said to them, “Our friend, Lazarus, has fallen asleep, but I am going so that I may awake him out of sleep.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The disciples therefore said, “Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he spoke of taking rest in sleep. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So Jesus said to them plainly then, “Lazarus is dead. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, so that you may believe. Nevertheless, let’s go to him.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thomas therefore, who is called Didymus,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> said to his fellow disciples, “Let’s go also, that we may die with him.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So when Jesus came, he found that he had been in the tomb four days already. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now Bethany was near Jerusalem, about fifteen stadia<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> away. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Many of the Jews had joined the women around Martha and Mary, to console them concerning their brother. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary stayed in the house. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore Martha said to Jesus, “Lord, if you would have been here, my brother wouldn’t have died. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Even now I know that, whatever you ask of God, God will give you.” <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Jesus said to her, “Your brother will rise again.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Martha said to him, “I know that he will rise again in the resurrection at the last day.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jesus said to her, “I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me will still live, even if he dies. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Whoever lives and believes in me will never die. Do you believe this?”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> She said to him, “Yes, Lord. I have come to believe that you are the Christ, God’s Son, he who comes into the world.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> When she had said this, she went away, and called Mary, her sister, secretly, saying, “The Teacher is here, and is calling you.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When she heard this, she arose quickly, and went to him. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was in the place where Martha met him. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then the Jews who were with her in the house, and were consoling her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up quickly and went out, followed her, saying, “She is going to the tomb to weep there.” <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Therefore when Mary came to where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying to him, “Lord, if you would have been here, my brother wouldn’t have died.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews weeping who came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled, <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and said, “Where have you laid him?”</p>

<p>They told him, “Lord, come and see.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jesus wept.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The Jews therefore said, “See how much affection he had for him!” <a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Some of them said, “Couldn’t this man, who opened the eyes of him who was blind, have also kept this man from dying?”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus therefore, again groaning in himself, came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone lay against it. <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Jesus said, “Take away the stone.”</p>

<p>Martha, the sister of him who was dead, said to him, “Lord, by this time there is a stench, for he has been dead four days.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Jesus said to her, “Didn’t I tell you that if you believed, you would see God’s glory?”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> So they took away the stone from the place where the dead man was lying.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, “Father, I thank you that you listened to me. <a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> I know that you always listen to me, but because of the multitude that stands around I said this, that they may believe that you sent me.” <a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> When he had said this, he cried with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out!”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> He who was dead came out, bound hand and foot with wrappings, and his face was wrapped around with a cloth.</p>

<p>Jesus said to them, “Free him, and let him go.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Therefore many of the Jews, who came to Mary and saw what Jesus did, believed in him. <a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> But some of them went away to the Pharisees, and told them the things which Jesus had done. <a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> The chief priests therefore and the Pharisees gathered a council, and said, “What are we doing? For this man does many signs. <a id="c11_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> If we leave him alone like this, everyone will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place and our nation.”</p>

<p><a id="c11_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> But a certain one of them, Caiaphas, being high priest that year, said to them, “You know nothing at all, <a id="c11_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> nor do you consider that it is advantageous for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation not perish.” <a id="c11_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Now he didn’t say this of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation, <a id="c11_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> and not for the nation only, but that he might also gather together into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. <a id="c11_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> So from that day forward they took counsel that they might put him to death. <a id="c11_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews, but departed from there into the country near the wilderness, to a city called Ephraim. He stayed there with his disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Now the Passover of the Jews was at hand. Many went up from the country to Jerusalem before the Passover, to purify themselves. <a id="c11_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Then they sought for Jesus and spoke one with another, as they stood in the temple, “What do you think—that he isn’t coming to the feast at all?” <a id="c11_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had commanded that if anyone knew where he was, he should report it, that they might seize him.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Didymus” means “Twin”.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>15 stadia is about 2.8 kilometers or 1.7 miles</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>NU omits “from the place where the dead man was lying.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>