<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> “I have said these things to you so that you wouldn’t be caused to stumble. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They will put you out of the synagogues. Yes, the time comes that whoever kills you will think that he offers service to God. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They will do these things<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> because they have not known the Father, nor me. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But I have told you these things, so that when the time comes, you may remember that I told you about them. I didn’t tell you these things from the beginning, because I was with you. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now I am going to him who sent me, and none of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’ <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But because I have told you these things, sorrow has filled your heart. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is to your advantage that I go away, for if I don’t go away, the Counselor won’t come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When he has come, he will convict the world about sin, about righteousness, and about judgment; <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> about sin, because they don’t believe in me; <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> about righteousness, because I am going to my Father, and you won’t see me any more; <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> about judgment, because the prince of this world has been judged.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> “I have yet many things to tell you, but you can’t bear them now. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> However when he, the Spirit of truth, has come, he will guide you into all truth, for he will not speak from himself; but whatever he hears, he will speak. He will declare to you things that are coming. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He will glorify me, for he will take from what is mine, and will declare it to you. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All things whatever the Father has are mine; therefore I said that he takes<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of mine, and will declare it to you. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A little while, and you will not see me. Again a little while, and you will see me.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Some of his disciples therefore said to one another, “What is this that he says to us, ‘A little while, and you won’t see me, and again a little while, and you will see me;’ and, ‘Because I go to the Father’?” <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They said therefore, “What is this that he says, ‘A little while’? We don’t know what he is saying.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore Jesus perceived that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them, “Do you inquire among yourselves concerning this, that I said, ‘A little while, and you won’t see me, and again a little while, and you will see me?’ <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Most certainly I tell you, that you will weep and lament, but the world will rejoice. You will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will be turned into joy. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A woman, when she gives birth, has sorrow, because her time has come. But when she has delivered the child, she doesn’t remember the anguish any more, for the joy that a human being is born into the world. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore you now have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart will rejoice, and no one will take your joy away from you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> “In that day you will ask me no questions. Most certainly I tell you, whatever you may ask of the Father in my name, he will give it to you. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Until now, you have asked nothing in my name. Ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be made full. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have spoken these things to you in figures of speech. But the time is coming when I will no more speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In that day you will ask in my name; and I don’t say to you, that I will pray to the Father for you, <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> for the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me, and have believed that I came from God. <a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I came from the Father, and have come into the world. Again, I leave the world, and go to the Father.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> His disciples said to him, “Behold, now you speak plainly, and speak no figures of speech. <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now we know that you know all things, and don’t need for anyone to question you. By this we believe that you came from God.”</p>

<p><a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe? <a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Behold, the time is coming, yes, and has now come, that you will be scattered, everyone to his own place, and you will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me. <a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I have told you these things, that in me you may have peace. In the world you have oppression; but cheer up! I have overcome the world.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>TR adds “to you”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>TR reads “will take” instead of “takes”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>