<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> His disciples asked him, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus answered, “Neither did this man sin, nor his parents; but, that the works of God might be revealed in him. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I must work the works of him who sent me, while it is day. The night is coming, when no one can work. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> While I am in the world, I am the light of the world.” <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When he had said this, he spat on the ground, made mud with the saliva, anointed the blind man’s eyes with the mud, <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and said to him, “Go, wash in the pool of Siloam” (which means “Sent”). So he went away, washed, and came back seeing. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The neighbors therefore, and those who saw that he was blind before, said, “Isn’t this he who sat and begged?” <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Others were saying, “It is he.” Still others were saying, “He looks like him.”</p>

<p>He said, “I am he.” <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They therefore were asking him, “How were your eyes opened?”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He answered, “A man called Jesus made mud, anointed my eyes, and said to me, ‘Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash.’ So I went away and washed, and I received sight.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then they asked him, “Where is he?”</p>

<p>He said, “I don’t know.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They brought him who had been blind to the Pharisees. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> It was a Sabbath when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Again therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he received his sight. He said to them, “He put mud on my eyes, I washed, and I see.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Some therefore of the Pharisees said, “This man is not from God, because he doesn’t keep the Sabbath.” Others said, “How can a man who is a sinner do such signs?” There was division among them. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore they asked the blind man again, “What do you say about him, because he opened your eyes?”</p>

<p>He said, “He is a prophet.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Jews therefore did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and had received his sight, until they called the parents of him who had received his sight, <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and asked them, “Is this your son, whom you say was born blind? How then does he now see?”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> His parents answered them, “We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind; <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but how he now sees, we don’t know; or who opened his eyes, we don’t know. He is of age. Ask him. He will speak for himself.” <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> His parents said these things because they feared the Jews; for the Jews had already agreed that if any man would confess him as Christ, he would be put out of the synagogue. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore his parents said, “He is of age. Ask him.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So they called the man who was blind a second time, and said to him, “Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He therefore answered, “I don’t know if he is a sinner. One thing I do know: that though I was blind, now I see.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They said to him again, “What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He answered them, “I told you already, and you didn’t listen. Why do you want to hear it again? You don’t also want to become his disciples, do you?”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They insulted him and said, “You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> We know that God has spoken to Moses. But as for this man, we don’t know where he comes from.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The man answered them, “How amazing! You don’t know where he comes from, yet he opened my eyes. <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> We know that God doesn’t listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God, and does his will, he listens to him.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Since the world began it has never been heard of that anyone opened the eyes of someone born blind. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If this man were not from God, he could do nothing.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They answered him, “You were altogether born in sins, and do you teach us?” They threw him out.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jesus heard that they had thrown him out, and finding him, he said, “Do you believe in the Son of God?”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He answered, “Who is he, Lord, that I may believe in him?”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Jesus said to him, “You have both seen him, and it is he who speaks with you.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He said, “Lord, I believe!” and he worshiped him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Jesus said, “I came into this world for judgment, that those who don’t see may see; and that those who see may become blind.”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Those of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and said to him, “Are we also blind?”</p>

<p><a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Jesus said to them, “If you were blind, you would have no sin; but now you say, ‘We see.’ Therefore your sin remains.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Psalm 66:18, Proverbs 15:29; 28:9</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>