<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The third day, there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee. Jesus’ mother was there. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jesus also was invited, with his disciples, to the marriage. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When the wine ran out, Jesus’ mother said to him, “They have no wine.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Jesus said to her, “Woman, what does that have to do with you and me? My hour has not yet come.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His mother said to the servants, “Whatever he says to you, do it.” <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now there were six water pots of stone set there after the Jews’ way of purifying, containing two or three metretes<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> apiece. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus said to them, “Fill the water pots with water.” They filled them up to the brim. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He said to them, “Now draw some out, and take it to the ruler of the feast.” So they took it. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When the ruler of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and didn’t know where it came from (but the servants who had drawn the water knew), the ruler of the feast called the bridegroom, <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and said to him, “Everyone serves the good wine first, and when the guests have drunk freely, then that which is worse. You have kept the good wine until now!” <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This beginning of his signs Jesus did in Cana of Galilee, and revealed his glory; and his disciples believed in him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> After this, he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, his brothers, and his disciples; and they stayed there a few days. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Passover of the Jews was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He found in the temple those who sold oxen, sheep, and doves, and the changers of money sitting. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He made a whip of cords, and threw all out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and he poured out the changers’ money, and overthrew their tables. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To those who sold the doves, he said, “Take these things out of here! Don’t make my Father’s house a marketplace!” <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His disciples remembered that it was written, “Zeal for your house will eat me up.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Jews therefore answered him, “What sign do you show us, seeing that you do these things?”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jesus answered them, “Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The Jews therefore said, “It took forty-six years to build this temple! Will you raise it up in three days?” <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But he spoke of the temple of his body. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he said this, and they believed the Scripture, and the word which Jesus had said.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover, during the feast, many believed in his name, observing his signs which he did. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But Jesus didn’t trust himself to them, because he knew everyone, <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and because he didn’t need for anyone to testify concerning man; for he himself knew what was in man.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>2 to 3 metretes is about 20 to 30 U. S. Gallons, or 75 to 115 liters.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Psalm 69:9</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>