<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jesus said these things, and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said, “Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may also glorify you; <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> even as you gave him authority over all flesh, he will give eternal life to all whom you have given him. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> This is eternal life, that they should know you, the only true God, and him whom you sent, Jesus Christ. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I glorified you on the earth. I have accomplished the work which you have given me to do. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now, Father, glorify me with your own self with the glory which I had with you before the world existed. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I revealed your name to the people whom you have given me out of the world. They were yours, and you have given them to me. They have kept your word. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now they have known that all things whatever you have given me are from you, <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for the words which you have given me I have given to them, and they received them, and knew for sure that I came from you, and they have believed that you sent me. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I pray for them. I don’t pray for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All things that are mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them through your name which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While I was with them in the world, I kept them in your name. Those whom you have given me I have kept. None of them is lost, except the son of destruction, that the Scripture might be fulfilled. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But now I come to you, and I say these things in the world, that they may have my joy made full in themselves. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have given them your word. The world hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I pray not that you would take them from the world, but that you would keep them from the evil one. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They are not of the world even as I am not of the world. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sanctify them in your truth. Your word is truth.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As you sent me into the world, even so I have sent them into the world. <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For their sakes I sanctify myself, that they themselves also may be sanctified in truth. <a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Not for these only do I pray, but for those also who believe in me through their word, <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that they may all be one; even as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be one in us; that the world may believe that you sent me. <a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The glory which you have given me, I have given to them; that they may be one, even as we are one; <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I in them, and you in me, that they may be perfected into one; that the world may know that you sent me, and loved them, even as you loved me. <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Father, I desire that they also whom you have given me be with me where I am, that they may see my glory, which you have given me, for you loved me before the foundation of the world. <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Righteous Father, the world hasn’t known you, but I knew you; and these knew that you sent me. <a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I made known to them your name, and will make it known; that the love with which you loved me may be in them, and I in them.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Psalm 119:142</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>