<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The same was in the beginning with God. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All things were made through him. Without him was not anything made that has been made. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In him was life, and the life was the light of men. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness hasn’t overcome<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> it. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> There came a man, sent from God, whose name was John. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The same came as a witness, that he might testify about the light, that all might believe through him. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He was not the light, but was sent that he might testify about the light. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The true light that enlightens everyone was coming into the world.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world didn’t recognize him. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He came to his own, and those who were his own didn’t receive him. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But as many as received him, to them he gave the right to become God’s children, to those who believe in his name: <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The Word became flesh, and lived among us. We saw his glory, such glory as of the one and only Son of the Father, full of grace and truth. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> John testified about him. He cried out, saying, “This was he of whom I said, ‘He who comes after me has surpassed me, for he was before me.’” <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> From his fullness we all received grace upon grace. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the law was given through Moses. Grace and truth were realized through Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No one has seen God at any time. The one and only Son,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> who is in the bosom of the Father, he has declared him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> This is John’s testimony, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, “Who are you?”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He declared, and didn’t deny, but he declared, “I am not the Christ.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They asked him, “What then? Are you Elijah?”</p>

<p>He said, “I am not.”</p>

<p>“Are you the prophet?”</p>

<p>He answered, “No.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They said therefore to him, “Who are you? Give us an answer to take back to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He said, “I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, ‘Make straight the way of the Lord,’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> as Isaiah the prophet said.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The ones who had been sent were from the Pharisees. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They asked him, “Why then do you baptize, if you are not the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet?”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> John answered them, “I baptize in water, but among you stands one whom you don’t know. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He is the one who comes after me, who is preferred before me, whose sandal strap I’m not worthy to loosen.” <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> These things were done in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The next day, he saw Jesus coming to him, and said, “Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world! <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> This is he of whom I said, ‘After me comes a man who is preferred before me, for he was before me.’ <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> I didn’t know him, but for this reason I came baptizing in water: that he would be revealed to Israel.” <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> John testified, saying, “I have seen the Spirit descending like a dove out of heaven, and it remained on him. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I didn’t recognize him, but he who sent me to baptize in water, he said to me, ‘On whomever you will see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he who baptizes in the Holy Spirit.’ <a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I have seen, and have testified that this is the Son of God.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Again, the next day, John was standing with two of his disciples, <a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and he looked at Jesus as he walked, and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God!” <a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. <a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus turned, and saw them following, and said to them, “What are you looking for?”</p>

<p>They said to him, “Rabbi” (which is to say, being interpreted, Teacher), “where are you staying?”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He said to them, “Come, and see.”</p>

<p>They came and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day. It was about the tenth hour.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a>  <a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> One of the two who heard John, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother. <a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He first found his own brother, Simon, and said to him, “We have found the Messiah!” (which is, being interpreted, Christ<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> ). <a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him, and said, “You are Simon the son of Jonah. You shall be called Cephas” (which is by interpretation, Peter). <a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> On the next day, he was determined to go out into Galilee, and he found Philip. Jesus said to him, “Follow me.” <a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter. <a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Philip found Nathanael, and said to him, “We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote: Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Nathanael said to him, “Can any good thing come out of Nazareth?”</p>

<p>Philip said to him, “Come and see.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and said about him, “Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no deceit!”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Nathanael said to him, “How do you know me?”</p>

<p>Jesus answered him, “Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Nathanael answered him, “Rabbi, you are the Son of God! You are King of Israel!”</p>

<p><a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Jesus answered him, “Because I told you, ‘I saw you underneath the fig tree,’ do you believe? You will see greater things than these!” <a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> He said to him, “Most certainly, I tell you, hereafter you will see heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man.”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word translated “overcome” (katelaben) can also be translated “comprehended.” It refers to getting a grip on an enemy to defeat him. </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>NU reads “God”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Isaiah 40:3</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>“Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>4:00 p.m.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>“Messiah” (Hebrew) and “Christ” (Greek) both mean “Anointed One”.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>