<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplying, a complaint arose from the Hellenists<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily service. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, “It is not appropriate for us to forsake the word of God and serve tables. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore select from among you, brothers, seven men of good report, full of the Holy Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But we will continue steadfastly in prayer and in the ministry of the word.”</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> These words pleased the whole multitude. They chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte of Antioch; <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> whom they set before the apostles. When they had prayed, they laid their hands on them. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The word of God increased and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem exceedingly. A great company of the priests were obedient to the faith.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Stephen, full of faith and power, performed great wonders and signs among the people. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But some of those who were of the synagogue called “The Libertines”, and of the Cyrenians, of the Alexandrians, and of those of Cilicia and Asia arose, disputing with Stephen. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They weren’t able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spoke. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then they secretly induced men to say, “We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God.” <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes, and came against him and seized him, and brought him in to the council, <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and set up false witnesses who said, “This man never stops speaking blasphemous words against this holy place and the law. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place, and will change the customs which Moses delivered to us.” <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All who sat in the council, fastening their eyes on him, saw his face like it was the face of an angel.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The Hellenists used Greek language and culture, even though they were also of Hebrew descent.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>