<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After five days, the high priest, Ananias, came down with certain elders and an orator, one Tertullus. They informed the governor against Paul. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When he was called, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, “Seeing that by you we enjoy much peace, and that prosperity is coming to this nation by your foresight, <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> we accept it in all ways and in all places, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But, that I don’t delay you, I entreat you to bear with us and hear a few words. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For we have found this man to be a plague, an instigator of insurrections among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He even tried to profane the temple, and we arrested him.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> ***#***#### TR adds “but the commanding officer, Lysias, came by and with great violence took him out of our hands,” #### <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> ***#***#### TR adds “commanding his accusers to come to you.” ####By examining him yourself you may ascertain all these things of which we accuse him.”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The Jews also joined in the attack, affirming that these things were so. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When the governor had beckoned to him to speak, Paul answered, “Because I know that you have been a judge of this nation for many years, I cheerfully make my defense, <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> seeing that you can recognize that it is not more than twelve days since I went up to worship at Jerusalem. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In the temple they didn’t find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the synagogues, or in the city. <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Nor can they prove to you the things of which they now accuse me. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But this I confess to you, that after the Way, which they call a sect, so I serve the God of our fathers, believing all things which are according to the law, and which are written in the prophets; <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> having hope toward God, which these also themselves look for, that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Herein I also practice always having a conscience void of offense toward God and men. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now after some years, I came to bring gifts for the needy to my nation, and offerings; <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> amid which certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, not with a mob, nor with turmoil. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They ought to have been here before you, and to make accusation, if they had anything against me. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Or else let these men themselves say what injustice they found in me when I stood before the council, <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> unless it is for this one thing that I cried standing among them, ‘Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being judged before you today!’”</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Felix, having more exact knowledge concerning the Way, deferred them, saying, “When Lysias, the commanding officer, comes down, I will decide your case.” <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He ordered the centurion that Paul should be kept in custody, and should have some privileges, and not to forbid any of his friends to serve him or to visit him. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But after some days, Felix came with Drusilla, his wife, who was a Jewess, and sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ Jesus. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As he reasoned about righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix was terrified, and answered, “Go your way for this time, and when it is convenient for me, I will summon you.” <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Meanwhile, he also hoped that money would be given to him by Paul, that he might release him. Therefore also he sent for him more often, and talked with him. <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But when two years were fulfilled, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Festus, and desiring to gain favor with the Jews, Felix left Paul in bonds.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>TR adds “We wanted to judge him according to our law,”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>