<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let every soul be in subjection to the higher authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those who exist are ordained by God. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore he who resists the authority, withstands the ordinance of God; and those who withstand will receive to themselves judgment. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For rulers are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. Do you desire to have no fear of the authority? Do that which is good, and you will have praise from the same, <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> for he is a servant of God to you for good. But if you do that which is evil, be afraid, for he doesn’t bear the sword in vain; for he is a servant of God, an avenger for wrath to him who does evil. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore you need to be in subjection, not only because of the wrath, but also for conscience’ sake. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this reason you also pay taxes, for they are servants of God’s service, attending continually on this very thing. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore give everyone what you owe: if you owe taxes, pay taxes; if customs, then customs; if respect, then respect; if honor, then honor. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Owe no one anything, except to love one another; for he who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the commandments, “You shall not commit adultery,” “You shall not murder,” “You shall not steal,”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> “You shall not covet,”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and whatever other commandments there are, are all summed up in this saying, namely, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Love doesn’t harm a neighbor. Love therefore is the fulfillment of the law. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Do this, knowing the time, that it is already time for you to awaken out of sleep, for salvation is now nearer to us than when we first believed. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The night is far gone, and the day is near. Let’s therefore throw off the deeds of darkness, and let’s put on the armor of light. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let us walk properly, as in the day; not in reveling and drunkenness, not in sexual promiscuity and lustful acts, and not in strife and jealousy. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, for its lusts.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>TR adds “You shall not give false testimony,”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Exodus 20:13-15,17; Deuteronomy 5:17-19,21</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Leviticus 19:18</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>