<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore you are without excuse, O man, whoever you are who judge. For in that which you judge another, you condemn yourself. For you who judge practice the same things. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> We know that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who practice such things. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do you think this, O man who judges those who practice such things, and do the same, that you will escape the judgment of God? <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Or do you despise the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and patience, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance? <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But according to your hardness and unrepentant heart you are treasuring up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath, revelation, and of the righteous judgment of God; <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who “will pay back to everyone according to their works:”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> to those who by perseverance in well-doing seek for glory, honor, and incorruptibility, eternal life; <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but to those who are self-seeking, and don’t obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, will be wrath and indignation, <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> oppression and anguish, on every soul of man who does evil, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But glory, honor, and peace go to every man who does good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For there is no partiality with God. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For as many as have sinned without law will also perish without the law. As many as have sinned under the law will be judged by the law. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For it isn’t the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law will be justified <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> (for when Gentiles who don’t have the law do by nature the things of the law, these, not having the law, are a law to themselves, <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience testifying with them, and their thoughts among themselves accusing or else excusing them) <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> in the day when God will judge the secrets of men, according to my Good News, by Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Indeed you bear the name of a Jew, and rest on the law, and glory in God, <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and know his will, and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law, <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and are confident that you yourself are a guide of the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of babies, having in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You therefore who teach another, don’t you teach yourself? You who preach that a man shouldn’t steal, do you steal? <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You who say a man shouldn’t commit adultery. Do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> You who glory in the law, through your disobedience of the law do you dishonor God? <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For “the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you,”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> just as it is written. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For circumcision indeed profits, if you are a doer of the law, but if you are a transgressor of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If therefore the uncircumcised keep the ordinances of the law, won’t his uncircumcision be accounted as circumcision? <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Won’t the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfills the law, judge you, who with the letter and circumcision are a transgressor of the law? <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh; <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Psalm 62:12; Proverbs 24:12</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Isaiah 52:5; Ezekiel 36:22</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>