<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I tell the truth in Christ. I am not lying, my conscience testifying with me in the Holy Spirit, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that I have great sorrow and unceasing pain in my heart. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I could wish that I myself were accursed from Christ for my brothers’ sake, my relatives according to the flesh, <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who are Israelites; whose is the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service, and the promises; <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> of whom are the fathers, and from whom is Christ as concerning the flesh, who is over all, God, blessed forever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But it is not as though the word of God has come to nothing. For they are not all Israel, that are of Israel. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Neither, because they are Abraham’s offspring,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> are they all children. But, “your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> will be accounted as from Isaac.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> That is, it is not the children of the flesh who are children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as heirs. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this is a word of promise, “At the appointed time I will come, and Sarah will have a son.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a>  <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Not only so, but Rebekah also conceived by one, by our father Isaac. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For being not yet born, neither having done anything good or bad, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him who calls,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a>  <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> it was said to her, “The elder will serve the younger.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a>  <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Even as it is written, “Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? May it never be! <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For he said to Moses, “I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a>  <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So then it is not of him who wills, nor of him who runs, but of God who has mercy. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, “For this very purpose I caused you to be raised up, that I might show in you my power, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a>  <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So then, he has mercy on whom he desires, and he hardens whom he desires. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You will say then to me, “Why does he still find fault? For who withstands his will?” <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God? Will the thing formed ask him who formed it, “Why did you make me like this?”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a>  <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Or hasn’t the potter a right over the clay, from the same lump to make one part a vessel for honor, and another for dishonor? <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> What if God, willing to show his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much patience vessels of wrath made for destruction, <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and that he might make known the riches of his glory on vessels of mercy, which he prepared beforehand for glory, <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> us, whom he also called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles? <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As he says also in Hosea,</p>

<p>“I will call them ‘my people,’ which were not my people;</p>

<p>and her ‘beloved,’ who was not beloved.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> “It will be that in the place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’</p>

<p>There they will be called ‘children of the living God.’”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Isaiah cries concerning Israel,</p>

<p>“If the number of the children of Israel are as the sand of the sea,</p>

<p>it is the remnant who will be saved;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> for He will finish the work and cut it short in righteousness,</p>

<p>because the Lord will make a short work upon the earth.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> As Isaiah has said before,</p>

<p>“Unless the Lord of Armies<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> had left us a seed,</p>

<p>we would have become like Sodom,</p>

<p>and would have been made like Gomorrah.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, who didn’t follow after righteousness, attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith; <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> but Israel, following after a law of righteousness, didn’t arrive at the law of righteousness. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Why? Because they didn’t seek it by faith, but as it were by works of the law. They stumbled over the stumbling stone; <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> even as it is written,</p>

<p>“Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a> I lay in Zion a stumbling stone and a rock of offense;</p>

<p>and no one who believes in him will be disappointed.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a></p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Genesis 21:12</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Genesis 18:10,14</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>NA puts the phrase “not of works, but of him who calls” at the beginning of verse 12 instead of the end of verse 11.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Genesis 25:23</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p>Malachi 1:2-3</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p>Exodus 33:19</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p>Exodus 9:16</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p>Isaiah 29:16; 45:9</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p>Hosea 2:23</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p>Hosea 1:10 </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p>Isaiah 10:22-23</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p>Greek: Sabaoth (for Hebrew: Tze’va’ot) </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p>Isaiah 1:9</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p>“Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p>Isaiah 8:14; 28:16</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>