<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Brothers, my heart’s desire and my prayer to God is for Israel, that they may be saved. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I testify about them that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For being ignorant of God’s righteousness, and seeking to establish their own righteousness, they didn’t subject themselves to the righteousness of God. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Christ is the fulfillment<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Moses writes about the righteousness of the law, “The one who does them will live by them.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But the righteousness which is of faith says this, “Don’t say in your heart, ‘Who will ascend into heaven?’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> (that is, to bring Christ down); <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> or, ‘Who will descend into the abyss?’<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> (that is, to bring Christ up from the dead.)” <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth, and in your heart”;<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> that is, the word of faith, which we preach: <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> that if you will confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For with the heart, one believes unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the Scripture says, “Whoever believes in him will not be disappointed.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek; for the same Lord is Lord of all, and is rich to all who call on him. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For, “Whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a>  <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? How will they believe in him whom they have not heard? How will they hear without a preacher? <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And how will they preach unless they are sent? As it is written:</p>

<p>“How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the Good News of peace,</p>

<p>who bring glad tidings of good things!”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But they didn’t all listen to the glad news. For Isaiah says, “Lord, who has believed our report?”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a>  <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But I say, didn’t they hear? Yes, most certainly,</p>

<p>“Their sound went out into all the earth,</p>

<p>their words to the ends of the world.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But I ask, didn’t Israel know? First Moses says,</p>

<p>“I will provoke you to jealousy with that which is no nation,</p>

<p>with a nation void of understanding I will make you angry.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Isaiah is very bold, and says,</p>

<p>“I was found by those who didn’t seek me.</p>

<p>I was revealed to those who didn’t ask for me.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But as to Israel he says, “All day long I stretched out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a></p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, completion, or end</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Leviticus 18:5</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Deuteronomy 30:12</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Deuteronomy 30:13</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Deuteronomy 30:14</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Isaiah 28:16</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p>Joel 2:32</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p>Isaiah 52:7</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p>Isaiah 53:1</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p>Psalm 19:4</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p>Deuteronomy 32:21</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p>Isaiah 65:1</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p>Isaiah 65:2</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>