<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore I urge you, brothers, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your spiritual service. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Don’t be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may prove what is the good, well-pleasing, and perfect will of God. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I say, through the grace that was given me, to every man who is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think reasonably, as God has apportioned to each person a measure of faith. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For even as we have many members in one body, and all the members don’t have the same function, <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> so we, who are many, are one body in Christ, and individually members one of another. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Having gifts differing according to the grace that was given to us, if prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of our faith; <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> or service, let us give ourselves to service; or he who teaches, to his teaching; <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> or he who exhorts, to his exhorting: he who gives, let him do it with liberality; he who rules, with diligence; he who shows mercy, with cheerfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let love be without hypocrisy. Abhor that which is evil. Cling to that which is good. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In love of the brothers be tenderly affectionate to one another; in honor preferring one another; <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> not lagging in diligence; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord; <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> rejoicing in hope; enduring in troubles; continuing steadfastly in prayer; <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> contributing to the needs of the saints; given to hospitality. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Bless those who persecute you; bless, and don’t curse. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Be of the same mind one toward another. Don’t set your mind on high things, but associate with the humble. Don’t be wise in your own conceits. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Repay no one evil for evil. Respect what is honorable in the sight of all men. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If it is possible, as much as it is up to you, be at peace with all men. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Don’t seek revenge yourselves, beloved, but give place to God’s wrath. For it is written, “Vengeance belongs to me; I will repay, says the Lord.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore</p>

<p>“If your enemy is hungry, feed him.</p>

<p>If he is thirsty, give him a drink;</p>

<p>for in doing so, you will heap coals of fire on his head.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Don’t be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Deuteronomy 32:35</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Proverbs 25:21-22</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>