<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I commend to you Phoebe, our sister, who is a servant<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the assembly that is at Cenchreae, <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that you receive her in the Lord, in a way worthy of the saints, and that you assist her in whatever matter she may need from you, for she herself also has been a helper of many, and of my own self.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who for my life, laid down their own necks; to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the assemblies of the Gentiles. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Greet the assembly that is in their house. Greet Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the first fruits of Achaia to Christ. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Greet Mary, who labored much for us. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Greet Andronicus and Junia, my relatives and my fellow prisoners, who are notable among the apostles, who were also in Christ before me. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Greet Amplias, my beloved in the Lord. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Greet Apelles, the approved in Christ. Greet those who are of the household of Aristobulus. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Greet Herodion, my kinsman. Greet them of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Greet Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet Persis, the beloved, who labored much in the Lord. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Greet Rufus, the chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> who are with them. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Greet Philologus and Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Greet one another with a holy kiss. The assemblies of Christ greet you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now I beg you, brothers, look out for those who are causing the divisions and occasions of stumbling, contrary to the doctrine which you learned, and turn away from them. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For those who are such don’t serve our Lord, Jesus Christ, but their own belly; and by their smooth and flattering speech, they deceive the hearts of the innocent. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For your obedience has become known to all. I rejoice therefore over you. But I desire to have you wise in that which is good, but innocent in that which is evil. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the God of peace will quickly crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you, as do Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I, Tertius, who write the letter, greet you in the Lord. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Gaius, my host and host of the whole assembly, greets you. Erastus, the treasurer of the city, greets you, as does Quartus, the brother. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all! Amen. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> ***#***#### TR places Romans 14:24-26 at the end of Romans instead of at the end of chapter 14, and numbers these verses 16:25-27. ####</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, deacon </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The word for “brothers” here and where context allows may also be correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>