<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I ask then, did God reject his people? May it never be! For I also am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God didn’t reject his people, which he foreknew. Or don’t you know what the Scripture says about Elijah? How he pleads with God against Israel: <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> “Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have broken down your altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But how does God answer him? “I have reserved for myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if by grace, then it is no longer of works; otherwise grace is no longer grace. But if it is of works, it is no longer grace; otherwise work is no longer work.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What then? That which Israel seeks for, that he didn’t obtain, but the chosen ones obtained it, and the rest were hardened. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> According as it is written, “God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear, to this very day.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> David says,</p>

<p>“Let their table be made a snare, and a trap,</p>

<p>a stumbling block, and a retribution to them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see.</p>

<p>Bow down their back always.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I ask then, did they stumble that they might fall? May it never be! But by their fall salvation has come to the Gentiles, to provoke them to jealousy. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now if their fall is the riches of the world, and their loss the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fullness? <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I speak to you who are Gentiles. Since then as I am an apostle to Gentiles, I glorify my ministry; <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> if by any means I may provoke to jealousy those who are my flesh, and may save some of them. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For if the rejection of them is the reconciling of the world, what would their acceptance be, but life from the dead? <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If the first fruit is holy, so is the lump. If the root is holy, so are the branches. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if some of the branches were broken off, and you, being a wild olive, were grafted in among them, and became partaker with them of the root and of the richness of the olive tree; <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> don’t boast over the branches. But if you boast, it is not you who support the root, but the root supports you. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You will say then, “Branches were broken off, that I might be grafted in.” <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> True; by their unbelief they were broken off, and you stand by your faith. Don’t be conceited, but fear; <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> for if God didn’t spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> See then the goodness and severity of God. Toward those who fell, severity; but toward you, goodness, if you continue in his goodness; otherwise you also will be cut off. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They also, if they don’t continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For if you were cut out of that which is by nature a wild olive tree, and were grafted contrary to nature into a good olive tree, how much more will these, which are the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree? <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I don’t desire you to be ignorant, brothers,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> of this mystery, so that you won’t be wise in your own conceits, that a partial hardening has happened to Israel, until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in, <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and so all Israel will be saved. Even as it is written,</p>

<p>“There will come out of Zion the Deliverer,</p>

<p>and he will turn away ungodliness from Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> This is my covenant to them,</p>

<p>when I will take away their sins.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Concerning the Good News, they are enemies for your sake. But concerning the election, they are beloved for the fathers’ sake. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For as you in time past were disobedient to God, but now have obtained mercy by their disobedience, <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> even so these also have now been disobedient, that by the mercy shown to you they may also obtain mercy. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For God has shut up all to disobedience, that he might have mercy on all.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Oh the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past tracing out!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> “For who has known the mind of the Lord?</p>

<p>Or who has been his counselor?”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> “Or who has first given to him,</p>

<p>and it will be repaid to him again?”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things. To him be the glory for ever! Amen.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>1 Kings 19:10,14</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>1 Kings 19:18</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Deuteronomy 29:4; Isaiah 29:10</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Psalm 69:22,23</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>The word for “brothers” here and where context allows may also be correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Isaiah 59:20-21; 27:9; Jeremiah 31:33-34</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p>Isaiah 40:13</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p>Job 41:11</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>