<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and such sexual immorality as is not even named among the Gentiles, that one has his father’s wife. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You are puffed up, and didn’t rather mourn, that he who had done this deed might be removed from among you. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I most certainly, as being absent in body but present in spirit, have already, as though I were present, judged him who has done this thing. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, you being gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> are to deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your boasting is not good. Don’t you know that a little yeast leavens the whole lump? <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Purge out the old yeast, that you may be a new lump, even as you are unleavened. For indeed Christ, our Passover, has been sacrificed in our place. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old yeast, neither with the yeast of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I wrote to you in my letter to have no company with sexual sinners; <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> yet not at all meaning with the sexual sinners of this world, or with the covetous and extortionists, or with idolaters; for then you would have to leave the world. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But as it is, I wrote to you not to associate with anyone who is called a brother who is a sexual sinner, or covetous, or an idolater, or a slanderer, or a drunkard, or an extortionist. Don’t even eat with such a person. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For what do I have to do with also judging those who are outside? Don’t you judge those who are within? <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But those who are outside, God judges. “Put away the wicked man from among yourselves.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Deuteronomy 17:7; 19:19; 21:21; 22:21; 24:7</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>