<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Brothers, I couldn’t speak to you as to spiritual, but as to fleshly, as to babies in Christ. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I fed you with milk, not with meat; for you weren’t yet ready. Indeed, not even now are you ready, <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for you are still fleshly. For insofar as there is jealousy, strife, and factions among you, aren’t you fleshly, and don’t you walk in the ways of men? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For when one says, “I follow Paul,” and another, “I follow Apollos,” aren’t you fleshly? <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who then is Apollos, and who is Paul, but servants through whom you believed; and each as the Lord gave to him? <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I planted. Apollos watered. But God gave the increase. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now he who plants and he who waters are the same, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For we are God’s fellow workers. You are God’s farming, God’s building. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> According to the grace of God which was given to me, as a wise master builder I laid a foundation, and another builds on it. But let each man be careful how he builds on it. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For no one can lay any other foundation than that which has been laid, which is Jesus Christ. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay, or stubble; <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> each man’s work will be revealed. For the Day will declare it, because it is revealed in fire; and the fire itself will test what sort of work each man’s work is. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If any man’s work remains which he built on it, he will receive a reward. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If any man’s work is burned, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, but as through fire.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Don’t you know that you are a temple of God, and that God’s Spirit lives in you? <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If anyone destroys God’s temple, God will destroy him; for God’s temple is holy, which you are.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let no one deceive himself. If anyone thinks that he is wise among you in this world, let him become a fool, that he may become wise. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, “He has taken the wise in their craftiness.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And again, “The Lord knows the reasoning of the wise, that it is worthless.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore let no one boast in men. For all things are yours, <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come. All are yours, <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and you are Christ’s, and Christ is God’s.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Job 5:13</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Psalm 94:11</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>