<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I commanded the assemblies of Galatia, you do likewise. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> On the first day of the week, let each one of you save, as he may prosper, that no collections be made when I come. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When I arrive, I will send whoever you approve with letters to carry your gracious gift to Jerusalem. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If it is appropriate for me to go also, they will go with me. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I will come to you when I have passed through Macedonia, for I am passing through Macedonia. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But with you it may be that I will stay, or even winter, that you may send me on my journey wherever I go. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For I do not wish to see you now in passing, but I hope to stay a while with you, if the Lord permits. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But I will stay at Ephesus until Pentecost, <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for a great and effective door has opened to me, and there are many adversaries. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear, for he does the work of the Lord, as I also do. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore let no one despise him. But set him forward on his journey in peace, that he may come to me; for I expect him with the brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now concerning Apollos, the brother, I strongly urged him to come to you with the brothers; and it was not at all his desire to come now; but he will come when he has an opportunity.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Watch! Stand firm in the faith! Be courageous! Be strong! <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let all that you do be done in love.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now I beg you, brothers (you know the house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have set themselves to serve the saints), <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> that you also be in subjection to such, and to everyone who helps in the work and labors. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus; for that which was lacking on your part, they supplied. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore acknowledge those who are like that.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The assemblies of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you much in the Lord, together with the assembly that is in their house. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> This greeting is by me, Paul, with my own hand. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If any man doesn’t love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Come, Lord!<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My love to all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Greek: anathema.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Aramaic: Maranatha!</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>