<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now concerning spiritual things, brothers, I don’t want you to be ignorant. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You know that when you were heathen,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> you were led away to those mute idols, however you might be led. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore I make known to you that no man speaking by God’s Spirit says, “Jesus is accursed.” No one can say, “Jesus is Lord,” but by the Holy Spirit. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now there are various kinds of gifts, but the same Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> There are various kinds of service, and the same Lord. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> There are various kinds of workings, but the same God, who works all things in all. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But to each one is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the profit of all. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For to one is given through the Spirit the word of wisdom, and to another the word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit; <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> to another faith, by the same Spirit; and to another gifts of healings, by the same Spirit; <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and to another workings of miracles; and to another prophecy; and to another discerning of spirits; to another different kinds of languages; and to another the interpretation of languages. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the one and the same Spirit produces all of these, distributing to each one separately as he desires.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For as the body is one, and has many members, and all the members of the body, being many, are one body; so also is Christ. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bond or free; and were all given to drink into one Spirit. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the body is not one member, but many. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If the foot would say, “Because I’m not the hand, I’m not part of the body,” it is not therefore not part of the body. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If the ear would say, “Because I’m not the eye, I’m not part of the body,” it’s not therefore not part of the body. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were hearing, where would the smelling be? <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But now God has set the members, each one of them, in the body, just as he desired. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If they were all one member, where would the body be? <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But now they are many members, but one body. <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The eye can’t tell the hand, “I have no need for you,” or again the head to the feet, “I have no need for you.” <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> No, much rather, those members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Those parts of the body which we think to be less honorable, on those we bestow more abundant honor; and our unpresentable parts have more abundant propriety; <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> whereas our presentable parts have no such need. But God composed the body together, giving more abundant honor to the inferior part, <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> that there should be no division in the body, but that the members should have the same care for one another. <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When one member suffers, all the members suffer with it. Or when one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Now you are the body of Christ, and members individually. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> God has set some in the assembly: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracle workers, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, and various kinds of languages. <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all miracle workers? <a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Do all have gifts of healings? Do all speak with various languages? Do all interpret? <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But earnestly desire the best gifts. Moreover, I show a most excellent way to you.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or Gentiles</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>