<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When I came to you, brothers, I didn’t come with excellence of speech or of wisdom, proclaiming to you the testimony of God. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I determined not to know anything among you, except Jesus Christ, and him crucified. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I was with you in weakness, in fear, and in much trembling. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My speech and my preaching were not in persuasive words of human wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that your faith wouldn’t stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We speak wisdom, however, among those who are full grown; yet a wisdom not of this world, nor of the rulers of this world, who are coming to nothing. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But we speak God’s wisdom in a mystery, the wisdom that has been hidden, which God foreordained before the worlds for our glory, <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> which none of the rulers of this world has known. For had they known it, they wouldn’t have crucified the Lord of glory. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But as it is written,</p>

<p>“Things which an eye didn’t see, and an ear didn’t hear,</p>

<p>which didn’t enter into the heart of man,</p>

<p>these God has prepared for those who love him.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But to us, God revealed them through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For who among men knows the things of a man, except the spirit of the man, which is in him? Even so, no one knows the things of God, except God’s Spirit. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But we received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is from God, that we might know the things that were freely given to us by God. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Which things also we speak, not in words which man’s wisdom teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual things. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now the natural man doesn’t receive the things of God’s Spirit, for they are foolishness to him, and he can’t know them, because they are spiritually discerned. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But he who is spiritual discerns all things, and he himself is judged by no one. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “For who has known the mind of the Lord, that he should instruct him?”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> But we have Christ’s mind.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Isaiah 64:4</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Isaiah 40:13</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>