<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> It is doubtless not profitable for me to boast. For I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I know a man in Christ, fourteen years ago (whether in the body, I don’t know, or whether out of the body, I don’t know; God knows), such a one caught up into the third heaven. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I know such a man (whether in the body, or outside of the body, I don’t know; God knows), <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> how he was caught up into Paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> On behalf of such a one I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except in my weaknesses. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For if I would desire to boast, I will not be foolish; for I will speak the truth. But I refrain, so that no man may think more of me than that which he sees in me, or hears from me. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> By reason of the exceeding greatness of the revelations, that I should not be exalted excessively, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of Satan to torment me, that I should not be exalted excessively. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Concerning this thing, I begged the Lord three times that it might depart from me. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He has said to me, “My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness.” Most gladly therefore I will rather glory in my weaknesses, that the power of Christ may rest on me.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore I take pleasure in weaknesses, in injuries, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses, for Christ’s sake. For when I am weak, then am I strong. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have become foolish in boasting. You compelled me, for I ought to have been commended by you, for in nothing was I inferior to the very best apostles, though I am nothing. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Truly the signs of an apostle were worked among you in all perseverance, in signs and wonders and mighty works. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For what is there in which you were made inferior to the rest of the assemblies, unless it is that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, this is the third time I am ready to come to you, and I will not be a burden to you; for I seek not your possessions, but you. For the children ought not to save up for the parents, but the parents for the children. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. If I love you more abundantly, am I loved the less? <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But be it so, I did not myself burden you. But, being crafty, I caught you with deception. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Did I take advantage of you by anyone of them whom I have sent to you? <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I exhorted Titus, and I sent the brother with him. Did Titus take any advantage of you? Didn’t we walk in the same spirit? Didn’t we walk in the same steps? <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Again, do you think that we are excusing ourselves to you? In the sight of God we speak in Christ. But all things, beloved, are for your edifying. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For I am afraid that by any means, when I come, I might find you not the way I want to, and that I might be found by you as you don’t desire; that by any means there would be strife, jealousy, outbursts of anger, factions, slander, whisperings, proud thoughts, riots; <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that again when I come my God would humble me before you, and I would mourn for many of those who have sinned before now, and not repented of the uncleanness and sexual immorality and lustfulness which they committed.</p>

</body>
</html>