<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Working together, we entreat also that you not receive the grace of God in vain, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for he says,</p>

<p>“At an acceptable time I listened to you,</p>

<p>in a day of salvation I helped you.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p>Behold, now is the acceptable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> We give no occasion of stumbling in anything, that our service may not be blamed, <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but in everything commending ourselves, as servants of God, in great endurance, in afflictions, in hardships, in distresses, <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> in beatings, in imprisonments, in riots, in labors, in watchings, in fastings; <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> in pureness, in knowledge, in perseverance, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in sincere love, <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> by glory and dishonor, by evil report and good report; as deceivers, and yet true; <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as punished, and not killed; <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Our mouth is open to you, Corinthians. Our heart is enlarged. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted by your own affections. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now in return, I speak as to my children, you also be open wide. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Don’t be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what fellowship have righteousness and iniquity? Or what fellowship has light with darkness? <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What agreement has Christ with Belial? Or what portion has a believer with an unbeliever? <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> What agreement has a temple of God with idols? For you are a temple of the living God. Even as God said, “I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I will be their God, and they will be my people.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore</p>

<p>“‘Come out from among them,</p>

<p>and be separate,’ says the Lord.</p>

<p>‘Touch no unclean thing.</p>

<p>I will receive you.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will be to you a Father.</p>

<p>You will be to me sons and daughters,’</p>

<p>says the Lord Almighty.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a></p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Isaiah 49:8</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Leviticus 26:12; Jeremiah 32:38; Ezekiel 37:27</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Isaiah 52:11; Ezekiel 20:34,41</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>2 Samuel 7:14; 7:8</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>