<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, an apostle (not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead), <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and all the brothers<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> who are with me, to the assemblies of Galatia: <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace to you and peace from God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of this present evil age, according to the will of our God and Father— <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I marvel that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different “good news”; <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and there isn’t another “good news.” Only there are some who trouble you, and want to pervert the Good News of Christ. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But even though we, or an angel from heaven, should preach to you any “good news” other than that which we preached to you, let him be cursed. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As we have said before, so I now say again: if any man preaches to you any “good news” other than that which you received, let him be cursed. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God? Or am I striving to please men? For if I were still pleasing men, I wouldn’t be a servant of Christ. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But I make known to you, brothers, concerning the Good News which was preached by me, that it is not according to man. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For neither did I receive it from man, nor was I taught it, but it came to me through revelation of Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you have heard of my way of living in time past in the Jews’ religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the assembly of God, and ravaged it. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I advanced in the Jews’ religion beyond many of my own age among my countrymen, being more exceedingly zealous for the traditions of my fathers. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But when it was the good pleasure of God, who separated me from my mother’s womb, and called me through his grace, <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> to reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the Gentiles, I didn’t immediately confer with flesh and blood, <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia. Then I returned to Damascus. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Peter, and stayed with him fifteen days. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But of the other apostles I saw no one, except James, the Lord’s brother. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now about the things which I write to you, behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> before God, I’m not lying. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then I came to the regions of Syria and Cilicia. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I was still unknown by face to the assemblies of Judea which were in Christ, <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> but they only heard: “He who once persecuted us now preaches the faith that he once tried to destroy.” <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they glorified God in me.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>The word for “brothers” here and where context allows may also be correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.” </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>“Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>