<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you not to obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ was openly portrayed among you as crucified? <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I just want to learn this from you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by hearing of faith? <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now completed in the flesh? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Did you suffer so many things in vain, if it is indeed in vain? <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He therefore who supplies the Spirit to you, and does miracles among you, does he do it by the works of the law, or by hearing of faith? <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Even as Abraham “believed God, and it was counted to him for righteousness.” <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Know therefore that those who are of faith, the same are children of Abraham. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the Good News beforehand to Abraham, saying, “In you all the nations will be blessed.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So then, those who are of faith are blessed with the faithful Abraham. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written, “Cursed is everyone who doesn’t continue in all things that are written in the book of the law, to do them.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now that no man is justified by the law before God is evident, for, “The righteous will live by faith.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The law is not of faith, but, “The man who does them will live by them.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us. For it is written, “Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree,”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a>  <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> that the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Christ Jesus; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Brothers, speaking of human terms, though it is only a man’s covenant, yet when it has been confirmed, no one makes it void, or adds to it. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now the promises were spoken to Abraham and to his offspring.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> He doesn’t say, “To descendants<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> ”, as of many, but as of one, “To your offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> ”,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> which is Christ. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now I say this. A covenant confirmed beforehand by God in Christ, the law, which came four hundred thirty years after, does not annul, so as to make the promise of no effect. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no more of promise; but God has granted it to Abraham by promise.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> What then is the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a> should come to whom the promise has been made. It was ordained through angels by the hand of a mediator. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now a mediator is not between one, but God is one. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Is the law then against the promises of God? Certainly not! For if there had been a law given which could make alive, most certainly righteousness would have been of the law. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the Scriptures imprisoned all things under sin, that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But before faith came, we were kept in custody under the law, confined for the faith which should afterwards be revealed. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So that the law has become our tutor to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For you are all children of God, through faith in Christ Jesus. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free man, there is neither male nor female; for you are all one in Christ Jesus. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> If you are Christ’s, then you are Abraham’s offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> and heirs according to promise.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Genesis 12:3; 18:18; 22:18</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Deuteronomy 27:26</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Habakkuk 2:4</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Leviticus 18:5</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Deuteronomy 21:23</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p>or, seeds</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p>Genesis 12:7; 13:15; 24:7</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>