<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Stand firm therefore in the liberty by which Christ has made us free, and don’t be entangled again with a yoke of bondage. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Behold, I, Paul, tell you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will profit you nothing. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yes, I testify again to every man who receives circumcision, that he is a debtor to do the whole law. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You are alienated from Christ, you who desire to be justified by the law. You have fallen away from grace. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For we, through the Spirit, by faith wait for the hope of righteousness. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision amounts to anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith working through love. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You were running well! Who interfered with you that you should not obey the truth? <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> This persuasion is not from him who calls you. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A little yeast grows through the whole lump. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have confidence toward you in the Lord that you will think no other way. But he who troubles you will bear his judgment, whoever he is.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But I, brothers, if I still preach circumcision, why am I still persecuted? Then the stumbling block of the cross has been removed. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I wish that those who disturb you would cut themselves off. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For you, brothers, were called for freedom. Only don’t use your freedom for gain to the flesh, but through love be servants to one another. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the whole law is fulfilled in one word, in this: “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But if you bite and devour one another, be careful that you don’t consume one another. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you won’t fulfill the lust of the flesh. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the flesh lusts against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh; and these are contrary to one another, that you may not do the things that you desire. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now the deeds of the flesh are obvious, which are: adultery, sexual immorality, uncleanness, lustfulness, <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> idolatry, sorcery, hatred, strife, jealousies, outbursts of anger, rivalries, divisions, heresies, <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> envy, murders, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these; of which I forewarn you, even as I also forewarned you, that those who practice such things will not inherit God’s Kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faith,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> gentleness, and self-control. Against such things there is no law. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Those who belong to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and lusts. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If we live by the Spirit, let’s also walk by the Spirit. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Let’s not become conceited, provoking one another, and envying one another.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Leviticus 19:18</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, faithfulness</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>