<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Brothers, even if a man is caught in some fault, you who are spiritual must restore such a one in a spirit of gentleness; looking to yourself so that you also aren’t tempted. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bear one another’s burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For if a man thinks himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But let each man examine his own work, and then he will have reason to boast in himself, and not in someone else. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For each man will bear his own burden. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But let him who is taught in the word share all good things with him who teaches. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Don’t be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, that he will also reap. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But he who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let us not be weary in doing good, for we will reap in due season, if we don’t give up. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So then, as we have opportunity, let’s do what is good toward all men, and especially toward those who are of the household of the faith.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> See with what large letters I write to you with my own hand. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As many as desire to look good in the flesh, they compel you to be circumcised; only that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For even they who receive circumcision don’t keep the law themselves, but they desire to have you circumcised, that they may boast in your flesh. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But far be it from me to boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For in Christ Jesus neither is circumcision anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> As many as walk by this rule, peace and mercy be on them, and on God’s Israel. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> From now on, let no one cause me any trouble, for I bear the marks of the Lord Jesus branded on my body.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>