<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ephesians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ephesians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be therefore imitators of God, as beloved children. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Walk in love, even as Christ also loved you, and gave himself up for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling fragrance. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But sexual immorality, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not even be mentioned among you, as becomes saints; <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> nor filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not appropriate; but rather giving of thanks.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Know this for sure, that no sexually immoral person, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the Kingdom of Christ and God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let no one deceive you with empty words. For because of these things, the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore don’t be partakers with them. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For you were once darkness, but are now light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> proving what is well pleasing to the Lord. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Have no fellowship with the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but rather even reprove them. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the things which are done by them in secret, it is a shame even to speak of. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But all things, when they are reproved, are revealed by the light, for everything that reveals is light. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore he says, “Awake, you who sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you.”</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore watch carefully how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise; <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> redeeming the time, because the days are evil. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore don’t be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Don’t be drunken with wine, in which is dissipation, but be filled with the Spirit, <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs; singing, and making melody in your heart to the Lord; <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> giving thanks always concerning all things in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God, even the Father; <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> subjecting yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wives, be subject to your own husbands, as to the Lord. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ also is the head of the assembly, being himself the savior of the body. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But as the assembly is subject to Christ, so let the wives also be to their own husbands in everything.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the assembly, and gave himself up for it; <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> that he might sanctify it, having cleansed it by the washing of water with the word, <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> that he might present the assembly to himself gloriously, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without defect. <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Even so husbands also ought to love their own wives as their own bodies. He who loves his own wife loves himself. <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For no man ever hated his own flesh; but nourishes and cherishes it, even as the Lord also does the assembly; <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> because we are members of his body, of his flesh and bones. <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> “For this cause a man will leave his father and mother, and will be joined to his wife. The two will become one flesh.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> This mystery is great, but I speak concerning Christ and of the assembly. <a id="c5_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Nevertheless each of you must also love his own wife even as himself; and let the wife see that she respects her husband.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Genesis 2:24</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>