<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If there is therefore any exhortation in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any tender mercies and compassion, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> make my joy full, by being like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> doing nothing through rivalry or through conceit, but in humility, each counting others better than himself; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> each of you not just looking to his own things, but each of you also to the things of others.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Have this in your mind, which was also in Christ Jesus, <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who, existing in the form of God, didn’t consider equality with God a thing to be grasped, <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And being found in human form, he humbled himself, becoming obedient to death, yes, the death of the cross. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore God also highly exalted him, and gave to him the name which is above every name; <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those in heaven, those on earth, and those under the earth, <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So then, my beloved, even as you have always obeyed, not only in my presence, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For it is God who works in you both to will and to work, for his good pleasure. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Do all things without murmurings and disputes, <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> that you may become blameless and harmless, children of God without defect in the middle of a crooked and perverse generation, among whom you are seen as lights in the world, <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> holding up the word of life; that I may have something to boast in the day of Christ, that I didn’t run in vain nor labor in vain. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yes, and if I am poured out on the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice with you all. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In the same way, you also rejoice, and rejoice with me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, that I also may be cheered up when I know how you are doing. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For I have no one else like-minded, who will truly care about you. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For they all seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But you know the proof of him, that, as a child serves a father, so he served with me in furtherance of the Good News. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore I hope to send him at once, as soon as I see how it will go with me. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But I trust in the Lord that I myself also will come shortly. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But I counted it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, fellow worker, fellow soldier, and your apostle and servant of my need; <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> since he longed for you all, and was very troubled, because you had heard that he was sick. <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For indeed he was sick, nearly to death, but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, that I might not have sorrow on sorrow. <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that, when you see him again, you may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful. <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honor, <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> because for the work of Christ he came near to death, risking his life to supply that which was lacking in your service toward me.</p>

</body>
</html>