<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ;</p>

<p>To all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the overseers<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and servants<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> : <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Grace to you, and peace from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I thank my God whenever I remember you, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> always in every request of mine on behalf of you all making my requests with joy, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for your partnership<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> in furtherance of the Good News from the first day until now; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> being confident of this very thing, that he who began a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> It is even right for me to think this way on behalf of all of you, because I have you in my heart, because, both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the Good News, you all are partakers with me of grace. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For God is my witness, how I long after all of you in the tender mercies of Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> This I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and all discernment; <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> so that you may approve the things that are excellent; that you may be sincere and without offense to the day of Christ; <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are through Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now I desire to have you know, brothers,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> that the things which happened to me have turned out rather to the progress of the Good News; <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> so that it became evident to the whole palace<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> guard, and to all the rest, that my bonds are in Christ; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and that most of the brothers in the Lord, being confident through my bonds, are more abundantly bold to speak the word of God without fear. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Some indeed preach Christ even out of envy and strife, and some also out of good will. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The former insincerely preach Christ from selfish ambition, thinking that they add affliction to my chains; <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> but the latter out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the Good News.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What does it matter? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed. I rejoice in this, yes, and will rejoice. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For I know that this will turn out to my salvation, through your supplication and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> according to my earnest expectation and hope, that I will in no way be disappointed, but with all boldness, as always, now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life, or by death. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But if I live on in the flesh, this will bring fruit from my work; yet I don’t know what I will choose. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But I am in a dilemma between the two, having the desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yet, to remain in the flesh is more needful for your sake. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Having this confidence, I know that I will remain, yes, and remain with you all, for your progress and joy in the faith, <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> that your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus in me through my presence with you again.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Only let your way of life be worthy of the Good News of Christ, that, whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your state, that you stand firm in one spirit, with one soul striving for the faith of the Good News; <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and in nothing frightened by the adversaries, which is for them a proof of destruction, but to you of salvation, and that from God. <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Because it has been granted to you on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer on his behalf, <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> having the same conflict which you saw in me, and now hear is in me.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, superintendents, or bishops</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Or, deacons</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>The word translated “partnership” (koinonia) also means “fellowship” and “sharing”.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>The word for “brothers” here and where context allows may also be correctly translated “brothers and sisters” or “siblings.”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>or, praetorian </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>