<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Colossians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Colossians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Masters, give to your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Continue steadfastly in prayer, watching therein with thanksgiving; <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> praying together for us also, that God may open to us a door for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds; <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> that I may reveal it as I ought to speak. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All my affairs will be made known to you by Tychicus, the beloved brother, faithful servant, and fellow bondservant in the Lord. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I am sending him to you for this very purpose, that he may know your circumstances and comfort your hearts, <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> together with Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you everything that is going on here. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (concerning whom you received commandments, “if he comes to you, receive him”), <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Jesus who is called Justus. These are my only fellow workers for God’s Kingdom who are of the circumcision, men who have been a comfort to me.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, salutes you, always striving for you in his prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I testify about him, that he has great zeal for you, and for those in Laodicea, and for those in Hierapolis. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas greet you. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Greet the brothers who are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the assembly that is in his house. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When this letter has been read among you, cause it to be read also in the assembly of the Laodiceans; and that you also read the letter from Laodicea. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Tell Archippus, “Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you fulfill it.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The salutation of me, Paul, with my own hand: remember my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>