<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Colossians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Colossians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If then you were raised together with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated on the right hand of God. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on the earth. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When Christ, our life, is revealed, then you will also be revealed with him in glory. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Put to death therefore your members which are on the earth: sexual immorality, uncleanness, depraved passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for which things’ sake the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You also once walked in those, when you lived in them; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but now you also put them all away: anger, wrath, malice, slander, and shameful speaking out of your mouth. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Don’t lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old man with his doings, <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and have put on the new man, who is being renewed in knowledge after the image of his Creator, <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> where there can’t be Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondservant, freeman; but Christ is all, and in all.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Put on therefore, as God’s chosen ones, holy and beloved, a heart of compassion, kindness, lowliness, humility, and perseverance; <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> bearing with one another, and forgiving each other, if any man has a complaint against any; even as Christ forgave you, so you also do.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Above all these things, walk in love, which is the bond of perfection. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one body; and be thankful. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly; in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your heart to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whatever you do, in word or in deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father, through him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Wives, be in subjection to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Husbands, love your wives, and don’t be bitter against them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Children, obey your parents in all things, for this pleases the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Fathers, don’t provoke your children, so that they won’t be discouraged.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Servants, obey in all things those who are your masters according to the flesh, not just when they are looking, as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart, fearing God. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord, and not for men, <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance; for you serve the Lord Christ. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But he who does wrong will receive again for the wrong that he has done, and there is no partiality.</p>

</body>
</html>