<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Thessalonians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Thessalonians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need that anything be written to you. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For you yourselves know well that the day of the Lord comes like a thief in the night. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For when they are saying, “Peace and safety,” then sudden destruction will come on them, like birth pains on a pregnant woman; and they will in no way escape. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But you, brothers, aren’t in darkness, that the day should overtake you like a thief. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You are all children of light, and children of the day. We don’t belong to the night, nor to darkness, <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so then let’s not sleep, as the rest do, but let’s watch and be sober. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For those who sleep, sleep in the night; and those who are drunk are drunk in the night. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But let us, since we belong to the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and, for a helmet, the hope of salvation. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For God didn’t appoint us to wrath, but to the obtaining of salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore exhort one another, and build each other up, even as you also do. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But we beg you, brothers, to know those who labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you, <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and to respect and honor them in love for their work’s sake.</p>

<p>Be at peace among yourselves. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> We exhort you, brothers, admonish the disorderly, encourage the faint-hearted, support the weak, be patient toward all. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> See that no one returns evil for evil to anyone, but always follow after that which is good, for one another, and for all.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Rejoice always. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Pray without ceasing. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus toward you. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Don’t quench the Spirit. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Don’t despise prophesies. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Test all things, and hold firmly that which is good. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Abstain from every form of evil.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> May the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. May your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He who calls you is faithful, who will also do it. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Brothers, pray for us. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I solemnly command you by the Lord that this letter be read to all the holy brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>