<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Timothy 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Timothy 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This is a faithful saying: if a man seeks the office of an overseer,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> he desires a good work. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The overseer therefore must be without reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, sensible, modest, hospitable, good at teaching; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> not a drinker, not violent, not greedy for money, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous; <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> one who rules his own house well, having children in subjection with all reverence; <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> (but if a man doesn’t know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the assembly of God?) <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> not a new convert, lest being puffed up he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Moreover he must have good testimony from those who are outside, to avoid falling into reproach and the snare of the devil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Servants,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> in the same way, must be reverent, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for money; <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let them also first be tested; then let them serve<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> if they are blameless. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their wives in the same way must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let servants<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> be husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For those who have served well<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> gain for themselves a good standing, and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These things I write to you, hoping to come to you shortly; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> but if I wait long, that you may know how men ought to behave themselves in God’s house, which is the assembly of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Without controversy, the mystery of godliness is great:</p>

<p>God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> was revealed in the flesh,</p>

<p>justified in the spirit,</p>

<p>seen by angels,</p>

<p>preached among the nations,</p>

<p>believed on in the world,</p>

<p>and received up in glory.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, superintendents, or bishops</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, Deacons.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>or, serve as deacons</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>or, deacons</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>or, served well as deacons</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>NU replaces “God” with “who”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>