<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Timothy 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Timothy 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ according to the commandment of God our Savior and the Lord Jesus Christ<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> our hope; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to Timothy, my true child in faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As I urged you when I was going into Macedonia, stay at Ephesus that you might command certain men not to teach a different doctrine, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and not to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies, which cause disputes, rather than God’s stewardship, which is in faith— <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but the goal of this command is love, out of a pure heart and a good conscience and sincere faith; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> from which things some, having missed the mark, have turned aside to vain talking; <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> desiring to be teachers of the law, though they understand neither what they say, nor about what they strongly affirm. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But we know that the law is good, if a person uses it lawfully, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> as knowing this, that law is not made for a righteous person, but for the lawless and insubordinate, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers, <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for the sexually immoral, for homosexuals, for slave-traders, for liars, for perjurers, and for any other thing contrary to the sound doctrine; <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> according to the Good News of the glory of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I thank him who enabled me, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he counted me faithful, appointing me to service; <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> although I was before a blasphemer, a persecutor, and insolent. However, I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The grace of our Lord abounded exceedingly with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The saying is faithful and worthy of all acceptance, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> However, for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first, Jesus Christ might display all his patience, for an example of those who were going to believe in him for eternal life. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, to God who alone is wise, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> This instruction I commit to you, my child Timothy, according to the prophecies which led the way to you, that by them you may wage the good warfare; <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> holding faith and a good conscience; which some having thrust away made a shipwreck concerning the faith; <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I delivered to Satan, that they might be taught not to blaspheme.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>NU reads Christ Jesus and omits the Lord. </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>