<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I thank God, whom I serve as my forefathers did, with a pure conscience. How unceasing is my memory of you in my petitions, night and day <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> longing to see you, remembering your tears, that I may be filled with joy; <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> having been reminded of the sincere faith that is in you; which lived first in your grandmother Lois, and your mother Eunice, and, I am persuaded, in you also.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this cause, I remind you that you should stir up the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For God didn’t give us a spirit of fear, but of power, love, and self-control. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore don’t be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner; but endure hardship for the Good News according to the power of God, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> who saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before times eternal, <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior, Christ Jesus, who abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light through the Good News. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For this, I was appointed as a preacher, an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For this cause I also suffer these things.</p>

<p>Yet I am not ashamed, for I know him whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to guard that which I have committed to him against that day.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hold the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> That good thing which was committed to you, guard through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> This you know, that all who are in Asia turned away from me; of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> May the Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain, <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> but when he was in Rome, he sought me diligently, and found me <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (the Lord grant to him to find the Lord’s mercy in that day); and in how many things he served at Ephesus, you know very well.</p>

</body>
</html>