<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> You therefore, my child, be strengthened in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The things which you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit the same to faithful men, who will be able to teach others also. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You therefore must endure hardship, as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> No soldier on duty entangles himself in the affairs of life, that he may please him who enrolled him as a soldier. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Also, if anyone competes in athletics, he isn’t crowned unless he has competed by the rules. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The farmer who labors must be the first to get a share of the crops. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Consider what I say, and may the Lord give you understanding in all things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, of the offspring<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of David, according to my Good News, <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> in which I suffer hardship to the point of chains as a criminal. But God’s word isn’t chained. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore I endure all things for the chosen ones’ sake, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This saying is trustworthy:</p>

<p>“For if we died with him,</p>

<p>we will also live with him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If we endure,</p>

<p>we will also reign with him.</p>

<p>If we deny him,</p>

<p>he also will deny us.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If we are faithless,</p>

<p>he remains faithful.</p>

<p>For he can’t deny himself.”</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Remind them of these things, charging them in the sight of the Lord, that they don’t argue about words, to no profit, to the subverting of those who hear.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Give diligence to present yourself approved by God, a workman who doesn’t need to be ashamed, properly handling the Word of Truth. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But shun empty chatter, for it will go further in ungodliness, <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and those words will consume like gangrene, of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus; <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> men who have erred concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection is already past, and overthrowing the faith of some. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> However God’s firm foundation stands, having this seal, “The Lord knows those who are his,”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and, “Let every one who names the name of the Lord<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> depart from unrighteousness.” <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now in a large house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of clay. Some are for honor, and some for dishonor. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If anyone therefore purges himself from these, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, and suitable for the master’s use, prepared for every good work.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Flee from youthful lusts; but pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But refuse foolish and ignorant questionings, knowing that they generate strife. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The Lord’s servant must not quarrel, but be gentle towards all, able to teach, patient, <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> in gentleness correcting those who oppose him: perhaps God may give them repentance leading to a full knowledge of the truth, <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and they may recover themselves out of the devil’s snare, having been taken captive by him to his will.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, seed</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Numbers 16:5</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>TR reads “Christ” instead of “the Lord”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>