<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I command you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his Kingdom: <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> preach the word; be urgent in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort, with all patience and teaching. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the time will come when they will not listen to the sound doctrine, but, having itching ears, will heap up for themselves teachers after their own lusts; <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and will turn away their ears from the truth, and turn aside to fables. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But you be sober in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of an evangelist, and fulfill your ministry.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I am already being offered, and the time of my departure has come. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have fought the good fight. I have finished the course. I have kept the faith. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> From now on, there is stored up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me on that day; and not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his appearing. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be diligent to come to me soon, <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for Demas left me, having loved this present world, and went to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, and Titus to Dalmatia. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But I sent Tychicus to Ephesus. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Bring the cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus when you come, and the books, especially the parchments. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Alexander, the coppersmith, did much evil to me. The Lord will repay him according to his deeds, <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> of whom you also must beware; for he greatly opposed our words.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> At my first defense, no one came to help me, but all left me. May it not be held against them. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the Lord stood by me, and strengthened me, that through me the message might be fully proclaimed, and that all the Gentiles might hear; and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me for his heavenly Kingdom; to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Erastus remained at Corinth, but I left Trophimus at Miletus sick. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus salutes you, as do Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>