<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Remind them to be in subjection to rulers and to authorities, to be obedient, to be ready for every good work, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to speak evil of no one, not to be contentious, to be gentle, showing all humility toward all men. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we were also once foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But when the kindness of God our Savior and his love toward mankind appeared, <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> not by works of righteousness which we did ourselves, but according to his mercy, he saved us through the washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit, <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> whom he poured out on us richly, through Jesus Christ our Savior; <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> that being justified by his grace, we might be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> This saying is faithful, and concerning these things I desire that you affirm confidently, so that those who have believed God may be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable to men; <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but shun foolish questionings, genealogies, strife, and disputes about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Avoid a factious man after a first and second warning, <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> knowing that such a one is perverted and sins, being self-condemned.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When I send Artemas to you, or Tychicus, be diligent to come to me to Nicopolis, for I have determined to winter there. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Send Zenas, the lawyer, and Apollos on their journey speedily, that nothing may be lacking for them. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let our people also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they may not be unfruitful.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All who are with me greet you. Greet those who love us in faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>