<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God’s chosen ones, and the knowledge of the truth which is according to godliness, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in hope of eternal life, which God, who can’t lie, promised before time began; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> but in his own time revealed his word in the message with which I was entrusted according to the commandment of God our Savior; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to Titus, my true child according to a common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I left you in Crete for this reason, that you would set in order the things that were lacking, and appoint elders in every city, as I directed you; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> if anyone is blameless, the husband of one wife, having children who believe, who are not accused of loose or unruly behavior. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the overseer must be blameless, as God’s steward; not self-pleasing, not easily angered, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for dishonest gain; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but given to hospitality, a lover of good, sober minded, fair, holy, self-controlled; <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> holding to the faithful word which is according to the teaching, that he may be able to exhort in the sound doctrine, and to convict those who contradict him. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For there are also many unruly men, vain talkers and deceivers, especially those of the circumcision, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> whose mouths must be stopped; men who overthrow whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for dishonest gain’s sake. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> One of them, a prophet of their own, said, “Cretans are always liars, evil beasts, and idle gluttons.” <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This testimony is true. For this cause, reprove them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith, <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> not paying attention to Jewish fables and commandments of men who turn away from the truth. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To the pure, all things are pure; but to those who are defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their mind and their conscience are defiled. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They profess that they know God, but by their deeds they deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and unfit for any good work.</p>

</body>
</html>