<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philemon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philemon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon, our beloved fellow worker, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to the beloved Apphia, to Archippus, our fellow soldier, and to the assembly in your house: <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I thank my God always, making mention of you in my prayers, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> hearing of your love, and of the faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all the saints; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that the fellowship of your faith may become effective, in the knowledge of every good thing which is in us in Christ Jesus. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For we have much joy and comfort in your love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through you, brother.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore though I have all boldness in Christ to command you that which is appropriate, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> yet for love’s sake I rather beg, being such a one as Paul, the aged, but also a prisoner of Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I beg you for my child, whom I have become the father of in my chains, Onesimus,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> who once was useless to you, but now is useful to you and to me. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I am sending him back. Therefore receive him, that is, my own heart, <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> whom I desired to keep with me, that on your behalf he might serve me in my chains for the Good News. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I was willing to do nothing without your consent, that your goodness would not be as of necessity, but of free will. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For perhaps he was therefore separated from you for a while, that you would have him forever, <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> no longer as a slave, but more than a slave, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much rather to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If then you count me a partner, receive him as you would receive me. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But if he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, put that to my account. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it (not to mention to you that you owe to me even your own self besides). <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yes, brother, let me have joy from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in the Lord. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Having confidence in your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even beyond what I say.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Also, prepare a guest room for me, for I hope that through your prayers I will be restored to you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you, <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow workers. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Onesimus means “useful”.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>