<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, holy brothers, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> who was faithful to him who appointed him, as also was Moses in all his house. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For he has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, because he who built the house has more honor than the house. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For every house is built by someone; but he who built all things is God. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were afterward to be spoken, <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but Christ is faithful as a Son over his house; whose house we are, if we hold fast our confidence and the glorying of our hope firm to the end. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, even as the Holy Spirit says,</p>

<p>“Today if you will hear his voice,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> don’t harden your hearts, as in the rebellion,</p>

<p>like as in the day of the trial in the wilderness,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> where your fathers tested me by proving me,</p>

<p>and saw my deeds for forty years.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore I was displeased with that generation,</p>

<p>and said, ‘They always err in their heart,</p>

<p>but they didn’t know my ways;’</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> as I swore in my wrath,</p>

<p>‘They will not enter into my rest.’”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Beware, brothers, lest perhaps there be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief, in falling away from the living God; <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> but exhort one another day by day, so long as it is called “today”; lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we have become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence firm to the end: <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> while it is said,</p>

<p>“Today if you will hear his voice,</p>

<p>don’t harden your hearts, as in the rebellion.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For who, when they heard, rebelled? No, didn’t all those who came out of Egypt by Moses? <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> With whom was he displeased forty years? Wasn’t it with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness? <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To whom did he swear that they wouldn’t enter into his rest, but to those who were disobedient? <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> We see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Psalm 95:7-11</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Psalm 95:7-8</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>