<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For the law, having a shadow of the good to come, not the very image of the things, can never with the same sacrifices year by year, which they offer continually, make perfect those who draw near. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Or else wouldn’t they have ceased to be offered, because the worshipers, having been once cleansed, would have had no more consciousness of sins? <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But in those sacrifices there is a yearly reminder of sins. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For it is impossible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore when he comes into the world, he says,</p>

<p>“Sacrifice and offering you didn’t desire,</p>

<p>but you prepared a body for me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You had no pleasure in whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then I said, ‘Behold, I have come (in the scroll of the book it is written of me)</p>

<p>to do your will, O God.’”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Previously saying, “Sacrifices and offerings and whole burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin you didn’t desire, neither had pleasure in them” (those which are offered according to the law), <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> then he has said, “Behold, I have come to do your will.” He takes away the first, that he may establish the second, <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> by which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Every priest indeed stands day by day serving and often offering the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins, <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> but he, when he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down on the right hand of God; <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> from that time waiting until his enemies are made the footstool of his feet. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The Holy Spirit also testifies to us, for after saying,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> “This is the covenant that I will make with them:</p>

<p>‘After those days,’ says the Lord,</p>

<p>‘I will put my laws on their heart,</p>

<p>I will also write them on their mind;’”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p>then he says,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> “I will remember their sins and their iniquities no more.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Having therefore, brothers, boldness to enter into the holy place by the blood of Jesus, <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> by the way which he dedicated for us, a new and living way, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh; <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and having a great priest over God’s house, <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> let’s draw near with a true heart in fullness of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and having our body washed with pure water, <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering; for he who promised is faithful.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Let us consider how to provoke one another to love and good works, <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> not forsaking our own assembling together, as the custom of some is, but exhorting one another; and so much the more, as you see the Day approaching. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more a sacrifice for sins, <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> but a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and a fierceness of fire which will devour the adversaries. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A man who disregards Moses’ law dies without compassion on the word of two or three witnesses. <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> How much worse punishment do you think he will be judged worthy of who has trodden under foot the Son of God, and has counted the blood of the covenant with which he was sanctified an unholy thing, and has insulted the Spirit of grace? <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For we know him who said, “Vengeance belongs to me,” says the Lord, “I will repay.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> Again, “The Lord will judge his people.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a>  <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But remember the former days, in which, after you were enlightened, you endured a great struggle with sufferings; <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> partly, being exposed to both reproaches and oppressions; and partly, becoming partakers with those who were treated so. <a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For you both had compassion on me in my chains, and joyfully accepted the plundering of your possessions, knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and an enduring one in the heavens. <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Therefore don’t throw away your boldness, which has a great reward. <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For you need endurance so that, having done the will of God, you may receive the promise.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> “In a very little while,</p>

<p>he who comes will come, and will not wait.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But the righteous will live by faith.</p>

<p>If he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But we are not of those who shrink back to destruction, but of those who have faith to the saving of the soul.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Psalm 40:6-8</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Jeremiah 31:33</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Jeremiah 31:34</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Deuteronomy 32:35</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Deuteronomy 32:36; Psalm 135:14</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Habakkuk 2:3-4</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>