<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let not many of you be teachers, my brothers, knowing that we will receive heavier judgment. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For in many things we all stumble. If anyone doesn’t stumble in word, the same is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body also. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Indeed, we put bits into the horses’ mouths so that they may obey us, and we guide their whole body. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the ships also, though they are so big and are driven by fierce winds, are yet guided by a very small rudder, wherever the pilot desires. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So the tongue is also a little member, and boasts great things. See how a small fire can spread to a large forest! <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the tongue is a fire. The world of iniquity among our members is the tongue, which defiles the whole body, and sets on fire the course of nature, and is set on fire by Gehenna.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For every kind of animal, bird, creeping thing, and sea creature, is tamed, and has been tamed by mankind; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but nobody can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With it we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse men, who are made in the image of God. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Out of the same mouth comes blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Does a spring send out from the same opening fresh and bitter water? <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Can a fig tree, my brothers, yield olives, or a vine figs? Thus no spring yields both salt water and fresh water.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show by his good conduct that his deeds are done in gentleness of wisdom. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your heart, don’t boast and don’t lie against the truth. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> This wisdom is not that which comes down from above, but is earthly, sensual, and demonic. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For where jealousy and selfish ambition are, there is confusion and every evil deed. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceful, gentle, reasonable, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>“Behold”, from “ἰδοὺ”, means look at, take notice, observe, see, or gaze at. It is often used as an interjection.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>or, Hell</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>