<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Where do wars and fightings among you come from? Don’t they come from your pleasures that war in your members? <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You lust, and don’t have. You murder and covet, and can’t obtain. You fight and make war. You don’t have, because you don’t ask. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You ask, and don’t receive, because you ask with wrong motives, so that you may spend it for your pleasures. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You adulterers and adulteresses, don’t you know that friendship with the world is hostility toward God? Whoever therefore wants to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or do you think that the Scripture says in vain, “The Spirit who lives in us yearns jealously”? <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be subject therefore to God. But resist the devil, and he will flee from you. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners; and purify your hearts, you double-minded. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lament, mourn, and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to gloom. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he will exalt you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Don’t speak against one another, brothers. He who speaks against a brother and judges his brother, speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Only one is the lawgiver, who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge another?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow let’s go into this city, and spend a year there, trade, and make a profit.” <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whereas you don’t know what your life will be like tomorrow. For what is your life? For you are a vapor, that appears for a little time, and then vanishes away. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For you ought to say, “If the Lord wills, we will both live, and do this or that.” <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now you glory in your boasting. All such boasting is evil. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> To him therefore who knows to do good, and doesn’t do it, to him it is sin.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Proverbs 3:34</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>