<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My brothers, don’t hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ of glory with partiality. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if a man with a gold ring, in fine clothing, comes into your synagogue,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and a poor man in filthy clothing also comes in; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and you pay special attention to him who wears the fine clothing, and say, “Sit here in a good place”; and you tell the poor man, “Stand there,” or “Sit by my footstool”; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> haven’t you shown partiality among yourselves, and become judges with evil thoughts? <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Listen, my beloved brothers. Didn’t God choose those who are poor in this world to be rich in faith, and heirs of the Kingdom which he promised to those who love him? <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But you have dishonored the poor man. Don’t the rich oppress you, and personally drag you before the courts? <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Don’t they blaspheme the honorable name by which you are called? <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> However, if you fulfill the royal law, according to the Scripture, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> you do well. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But if you show partiality, you commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For whoever keeps the whole law, and yet stumbles in one point, he has become guilty of all. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he who said, “Do not commit adultery,”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> also said, “Do not commit murder.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> Now if you do not commit adultery, but murder, you have become a transgressor of the law. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So speak, and so do, as men who are to be judged by a law of freedom. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For judgment is without mercy to him who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What good is it, my brothers, if a man says he has faith, but has no works? Can faith save him? <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And if a brother or sister is naked and in lack of daily food, <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and one of you tells them, “Go in peace, be warmed and filled”; and yet you didn’t give them the things the body needs, what good is it? <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Even so faith, if it has no works, is dead in itself. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yes, a man will say, “You have faith, and I have works.” Show me your faith without works, and I by my works will show you my faith.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You believe that God is one. You do well. The demons also believe, and shudder. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But do you want to know, vain man, that faith apart from works is dead? <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Wasn’t Abraham our father justified by works, in that he offered up Isaac his son on the altar? <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You see that faith worked with his works, and by works faith was perfected; <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and the Scripture was fulfilled which says, “Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him as righteousness”;<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> and he was called the friend of God. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> You see then that by works, a man is justified, and not only by faith. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In the same way, wasn’t Rahab the prostitute also justified by works, in that she received the messengers, and sent them out another way? <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, even so faith apart from works is dead.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>or, meeting</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Leviticus 19:18</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Exodus 20:14; Deuteronomy 5:18</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Exodus 10:13; Deuteronomy 5:17 </p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Genesis 15:6</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>