<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and who will also share in the glory that will be revealed. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, exercising the oversight, not under compulsion, but voluntarily, not for dishonest gain, but willingly; <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> neither as lording it over those entrusted to you, but making yourselves examples to the flock. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When the chief Shepherd is revealed, you will receive the crown of glory that doesn’t fade away.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Likewise, you younger ones, be subject to the elder. Yes, all of you clothe yourselves with humility, to subject yourselves to one another; for “God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble.”<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time; <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> casting all your worries on him, because he cares for you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be sober and self-controlled. Be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, walks around like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Withstand him steadfast in your faith, knowing that your brothers who are in the world are undergoing the same sufferings. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But may the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a little while, perfect, establish, strengthen, and settle you. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> To him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Through Silvanus, our faithful brother, as I consider him, I have written to you briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God in which you stand. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> She who is in Babylon, chosen together with you, greets you; and so does Mark, my son. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace be to you all who are in Christ Jesus. Amen.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Proverbs 3:34 </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>