<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 John 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 John 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> See how great a love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God! For this cause the world doesn’t know us, because it didn’t know him. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beloved, now we are children of God, and it is not yet revealed what we will be. But we know that, when he is revealed, we will be like him; for we will see him just as he is. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Everyone who has this hope set on him purifies himself, even as he is pure. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Everyone who sins also commits lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You know that he was revealed to take away our sins, and in him is no sin. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whoever remains in him doesn’t sin. Whoever sins hasn’t seen him and doesn’t know him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Little children, let no one lead you astray. He who does righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He who sins is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. To this end the Son of God was revealed: that he might destroy the works of the devil. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoever is born of God doesn’t commit sin, because his seed remains in him; and he can’t sin, because he is born of God. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In this the children of God are revealed, and the children of the devil. Whoever doesn’t do righteousness is not of God, neither is he who doesn’t love his brother. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For this is the message which you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another; <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> unlike Cain, who was of the evil one, and killed his brother. Why did he kill him? Because his deeds were evil, and his brother’s righteous. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Don’t be surprised, my brothers, if the world hates you. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. He who doesn’t love his brother remains in death. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whoever hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life remaining in him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> By this we know love, because he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But whoever has the world’s goods, and sees his brother in need, and closes his heart of compassion against him, how does God’s love remain in him? <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> My little children, let’s not love in word only, or with the tongue only, but in deed and truth. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And by this we know that we are of the truth, and persuade our hearts before him, <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> because if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and knows all things. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Beloved, if our hearts don’t condemn us, we have boldness toward God; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and whatever we ask, we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another, even as he commanded. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He who keeps his commandments remains in him, and he in him. By this we know that he remains in us, by the Spirit which he gave us.</p>

</body>
</html>