<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elder, to the chosen lady and her children, whom I love in truth; and not I only, but also all those who know the truth; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for the truth’s sake, which remains in us, and it will be with us forever: <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I rejoice greatly that I have found some of your children walking in truth, even as we have been commanded by the Father. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now I beg you, dear lady, not as though I wrote to you a new commandment, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This is love, that we should walk according to his commandments. This is the commandment, even as you heard from the beginning, that you should walk in it. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For many deceivers have gone out into the world, those who don’t confess that Jesus Christ came in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the Antichrist. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Watch yourselves, that we don’t lose the things which we have accomplished, but that we receive a full reward. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoever transgresses and doesn’t remain in the teaching of Christ, doesn’t have God. He who remains in the teaching, the same has both the Father and the Son. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If anyone comes to you, and doesn’t bring this teaching, don’t receive him into your house, and don’t welcome him, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for he who welcomes him participates in his evil deeds.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Having many things to write to you, I don’t want to do so with paper and ink, but I hope to come to you, and to speak face to face, that our joy may be made full. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The children of your chosen sister greet you. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>