<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When he opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Another angel came and stood over the altar, having a golden censer. Much incense was given to him, that he should add it to the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which was before the throne. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, went up before God out of the angel’s hand. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The angel took the censer, and he filled it with the fire of the altar, and threw it on the earth. There followed thunders, sounds, lightnings, and an earthquake.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The first sounded, and there followed hail and fire, mixed with blood, and they were thrown to the earth. One third of the earth was burned up,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and one third of the trees were burned up, and all green grass was burned up.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The second angel sounded, and something like a great burning mountain was thrown into the sea. One third of the sea became blood, <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and one third of the living creatures which were in the sea died. One third of the ships were destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The third angel sounded, and a great star fell from the sky, burning like a torch, and it fell on one third of the rivers, and on the springs of the waters. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The name of the star is called “Wormwood.” One third of the waters became wormwood. Many people died from the waters, because they were made bitter.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The fourth angel sounded, and one third of the sun was struck, and one third of the moon, and one third of the stars; so that one third of them would be darkened, and the day wouldn’t shine for one third of it, and the night in the same way. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I saw, and I heard an eagle,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> flying in mid heaven, saying with a loud voice, “Woe! Woe! Woe for those who dwell on the earth, because of the other voices of the trumpets of the three angels, who are yet to sound!”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>TR omits “One third of the earth was burned up”</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>TR reads “angel” instead of “eagle” </p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>