<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth have passed away, and the sea is no more. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared like a bride adorned for her husband. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I heard a loud voice out of heaven saying, “Behold, God’s dwelling is with people, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will wipe away from them every tear from their eyes. Death will be no more; neither will there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain, any more. The first things have passed away.”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He who sits on the throne said, “Behold, I am making all things new.” He said, “Write, for these words of God are faithful and true.” <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He said to me, “I have become the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> I will give freely to him who is thirsty from the spring of the water of life. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He who overcomes, I will give him these things. I will be his God, and he will be my son. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But for the cowardly, unbelieving, sinners, abominable, murderers, sexually immoral, sorcerers,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> idolaters, and all liars, their part is in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death.”</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> One of the seven angels who had the seven bowls, who were loaded with the seven last plagues came, and he spoke with me, saying, “Come here. I will show you the wife, the Lamb’s bride.” <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He carried me away in the Spirit to a great and high mountain, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> having the glory of God. Her light was like a most precious stone, as if it were a jasper stone, clear as crystal; <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> having a great and high wall; having twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels; and names written on them, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> On the east were three gates; and on the north three gates; and on the south three gates; and on the west three gates. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them twelve names of the twelve Apostles of the Lamb. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He who spoke with me had for a measure a golden reed to measure the city, its gates, and its walls. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The city is square, and its length is as great as its width. He measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand twelve stadia.<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> Its length, width, and height are equal. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Its wall is one hundred forty-four cubits,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> by the measure of a man, that is, of an angel. <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The construction of its wall was jasper. The city was pure gold, like pure glass. <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The foundations of the city’s wall were adorned with all kinds of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire;<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald; <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprasus; the eleventh, jacinth; and the twelfth, amethyst. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The twelve gates were twelve pearls. Each one of the gates was made of one pearl. The street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass. <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I saw no temple in it, for the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb, are its temple. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The city has no need for the sun, neither of the moon, to shine, for the very glory of God illuminated it, and its lamp is the Lamb. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The nations will walk in its light. The kings of the earth bring the glory and honor of the nations into it. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Its gates will in no way be shut by day (for there will be no night there), <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and they shall bring the glory and the honor of the nations into it so that they may enter. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> There will in no way enter into it anything profane, or one who causes an abomination or a lie, but only those who are written in the Lamb’s book of life.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>TR and NU read “It is done! I am the Alpha and the Omega, the Beginning and the End.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>The word for “sorcerers” here also includes users of potions and drugs.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>12,012 stadia = or 2,221 kilometers or 1,380 miles. TR reads 12,000 stadia instead of 12,012 stadia.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>144 cubits is about 65.8 meters or 216 feet</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>or, lapis lazuli</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>