<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things I looked and saw a door opened in heaven, and the first voice that I heard, like a trumpet speaking with me, was one saying, “Come up here, and I will show you the things which must happen after this.”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Immediately I was in the Spirit. Behold, there was a throne set in heaven, and one sitting on the throne <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> that looked like a jasper stone and a sardius. There was a rainbow around the throne, like an emerald to look at. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Around the throne were twenty-four thrones. On the thrones were twenty-four elders sitting, dressed in white garments, with crowns of gold on their heads. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Out of the throne proceed lightnings, sounds, and thunders. There were seven lamps of fire burning before his throne, which are the seven Spirits of God. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Before the throne was something like a sea of glass, similar to crystal. In the middle of the throne, and around the throne were four living creatures full of eyes before and behind. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The first creature was like a lion, and the second creature like a calf, and the third creature had a face like a man, and the fourth was like a flying eagle. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The four living creatures, each one of them having six wings, are full of eyes around and within. They have no rest day and night, saying, “Holy, holy, holy<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is the Lord God, the Almighty, who was and who is and who is to come!”</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When the living creatures give glory, honor, and thanks to him who sits on the throne, to him who lives forever and ever, <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> the twenty-four elders fall down before him who sits on the throne, and worship him who lives forever and ever, and throw their crowns before the throne, saying, <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> “Worthy are you, our Lord and God, the Holy One,<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> to receive the glory, the honor, and the power, for you created all things, and because of your desire they existed, and were created!”</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hodges/Farstad MT reads “holy” 9 times instead of 3.</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>TR omits “and God, the Holy One,”</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>