<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goyim,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> they have made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboim, and the king of Bela, which [is] Zoar.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All these have been joined together unto the valley of Siddim, which [is] the Salt Sea;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and the thirteenth year they rebelled.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings who [are] with him, and they smite the Rephaim in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzim in Ham, and the Emim in Shaveh Kiriathaim,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the Horites in their mount Seir, unto El-Paran, which [is] by the wilderness;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and they turn back and come in unto En-Mishpat, which [is] Kadesh, and smite the whole field of the Amalekite, and also the Amorite who is dwelling in Hazezon-Tamar.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the king of Sodom goeth out, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboim, and the king of Bela, which [is] Zoar; and they set the battle in array with them in the valley of Siddim,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> with Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goyim, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings with the five.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the valley of Siddim [is] full of bitumen-pits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah flee, and fall there, and those left have fled to the mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they take the whole substance of Sodom and Gomorrah, and the whole of their food, and go away;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and they take Lot, Abram's brother's son (seeing he is dwelling in Sodom), and his substance, and go away.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And one who is escaping cometh and declareth to Abram the Hebrew, and he is dwelling among the oaks of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner, and they [are] Abram's allies.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Abram heareth that his brother hath been taken captive, and he draweth out his trained domestics, three hundred and eighteen, and pursueth unto Dan.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he divideth himself against them by night, he and his servants, and smiteth them, and pursueth them unto Hobah, which [is] at the left of Damascus;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and he bringeth back the whole of the substance, and also Lot his brother and his substance hath he brought back, and also the women and the people.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the king of Sodom goeth out to meet him (after his turning back from the smiting of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings who [are] with him), unto the valley of Shaveh, which [is] the king's valley.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Melchizedek king of Salem hath brought out bread and wine, and he [is] priest of God Most High;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and he blesseth him, and saith, `Blessed [is] Abram to God Most High, possessing heaven and earth;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and blessed [is] God Most High, who hath delivered thine adversaries into thy hand;' and he giveth to him a tenth of all.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the king of Sodom saith unto Abram, `Give to me the persons, and the substance take to thyself,'</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and Abram saith unto the king of Sodom, `I have lifted up my hand unto Jehovah, God Most High, possessing heaven and earth--</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> from a thread even unto a shoe-latchet I take not of anything which thou hast, that thou say not, I--I have made Abram rich;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men who have gone with me--Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre--they take their portion.'</p>

</body>
</html>