<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the man knew Eve his wife, and she conceiveth and beareth Cain, and saith, `I have gotten a man by Jehovah;'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and she addeth to bear his brother, even Abel. And Abel is feeding a flock, and Cain hath been servant of the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And it cometh to pass at the end of days that Cain bringeth from the fruit of the ground a present to Jehovah;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and Abel, he hath brought, he also, from the female firstlings of his flock, even from their fat ones; and Jehovah looketh unto Abel and unto his present,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and unto Cain and unto his present He hath not looked; and it is very displeasing to Cain, and his countenance is fallen.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah saith unto Cain, `Why hast thou displeasure? and why hath thy countenance fallen?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Is there not, if thou dost well, acceptance? and if thou dost not well, at the opening a sin-offering is crouching, and unto thee its desire, and thou rulest over it.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Cain saith unto Abel his brother, [`Let us go into the field;'] and it cometh to pass in their being in the field, that Cain riseth up against Abel his brother, and slayeth him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah saith unto Cain, `Where [is] Abel thy brother?' and he saith, `I have not known; my brother's keeper--I?'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And He saith, `What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood is crying unto Me from the ground;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and now, cursed [art] thou from the ground, which hath opened her mouth to receive the blood of thy brother from thy hand;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> when thou tillest the ground, it doth not add to give its strength to thee--a wanderer, even a trembling one, thou art in the earth.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Cain saith unto Jehovah, `Greater is my punishment than to be borne;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> lo, Thou hast driven me to-day from off the face of the ground, and from Thy face I am hid; and I have been a wanderer, even a trembling one, in the earth, and it hath been--every one finding me doth slay me.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jehovah saith to him, `Therefore--of any slayer of Cain sevenfold it is required;' and Jehovah setteth to Cain a token that none finding him doth slay him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Cain goeth out from before Jehovah, and dwelleth in the land, moving about east of Eden;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and Cain knoweth his wife, and she conceiveth, and beareth Enoch; and he is building a city, and he calleth the name of the city, according to the name of his son--Enoch.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And born to Enoch is Irad; and Irad hath begotten Mehujael; and Mehujael hath begotten Methusael; and Methusael hath begotten Lamech.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Lamech taketh to himself two wives, the name of the one Adah, and the name of the second Zillah.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Adah beareth Jabal, he hath been father of those inhabiting tents and purchased possessions;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and the name of his brother [is] Jubal, he hath been father of every one handling harp and organ.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Zillah she also bare Tubal-Cain, an instructor of every artificer in brass and iron; and a sister of Tubal-Cain [is] Naamah.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Lamech saith to his wives: --`Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; Wives of Lamech, give ear [to] my saying: For a man I have slain for my wound, Even a young man for my hurt;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For sevenfold is required for Cain, And for Lamech seventy and sevenfold.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Adam again knoweth his wife, and she beareth a son, and calleth his name Seth, `for God hath appointed for me another seed instead of Abel:' for Cain had slain him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And to Seth, to him also a son hath been born, and he calleth his name Enos; then a beginning was made of preaching in the name of Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>