<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And God remembereth Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle which [are] with him in the ark, and God causeth a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters subside,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and closed are the fountains of the deep and the net-work of the heavens, and restrained is the shower from the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And turn back do the waters from off the earth, going on and returning; and the waters are lacking at the end of a hundred and fifty days.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the ark resteth, in the seventh month, in the seventeenth day of the month, on mountains of Ararat;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the waters have been going and becoming lacking till the tenth month; in the tenth [month], on the first of the month, appeared the heads of the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it cometh to pass, at the end of forty days, that Noah openeth the window of the ark which he made,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and he sendeth forth the raven, and it goeth out, going out and turning back till the drying of the waters from off the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he sendeth forth the dove from him to see whether the waters have been lightened from off the face of the ground,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the dove hath not found rest for the sole of her foot, and she turneth back unto him, unto the ark, for waters [are] on the face of all the earth, and he putteth out his hand, and taketh her, and bringeth her in unto him, unto the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he stayeth yet other seven days, and addeth to send forth the dove from the ark;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the dove cometh in unto him at even-time, and lo, an olive leaf torn off in her mouth; and Noah knoweth that the waters have been lightened from off the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he stayeth yet other seven days, and sendeth forth the dove, and it added not to turn back unto him any more.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it cometh to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first [month], in the first of the month, the waters have been dried from off the earth; and Noah turneth aside the covering of the ark, and looketh, and lo, the face of the ground hath been dried.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And in the second month, in the seven and twentieth day of the month, the earth hath become dry.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And God speaketh unto Noah, saying, `Go out from the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> every living thing that [is] with thee, of all flesh, among fowl, and among cattle, and among every creeping thing which is creeping on the earth, bring out with thee;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and they have teemed in the earth, and been fruitful, and have multiplied on the earth.'</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Noah goeth out, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl; every creeping thing on the earth, after their families, have gone out from the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Noah buildeth an altar to Jehovah, and taketh of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and causeth burnt-offerings to ascend on the altar;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Jehovah smelleth the sweet fragrance, and Jehovah saith unto His heart, `I continue not to disesteem any more the ground because of man, though the imagination of the heart of man [is] evil from his youth; and I continue not to smite anymore all living, as I have done;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> during all days of the earth, seed-time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night, do not cease.'</p>

</body>
</html>