<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And these [are] births of Esau, who [is] Edom.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Esau hath taken his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon the Hivite,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and Bashemath daughter of Ishmael, sister of Nebajoth.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Adah beareth to Esau, Eliphaz; and Bashemath hath born Reuel;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and Aholibamah hath born Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah. These [are] sons of Esau, who were born to him in the land of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Esau taketh his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all his substance which he hath acquired in the land of Canaan, and goeth into the country from the face ofJacob his brother;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for their substance was more abundant than to dwell together, and the land of their sojournings was not able to bear them because of their cattle;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and Esau dwelleth in mount Seir: Esau is Edom.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And these [are] births of Esau, father of Edom, in mount Seir.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> These [are] the names of the sons of Esau: Eliphaz son of Adah, wife of Esau; Reuel son of Bashemath, wife of Esau.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the sons of Eliphaz are Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Timnath hath been concubine to Eliphaz son of Esau, and she beareth to Eliphaz, Amalek; these [are] sons of Adah wife of Esau.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And these [are] sons of Reuel: Nahath and Zerah, Shammah and Mizzah; these were sons of Bashemath wife of Esau.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And these have been the sons of Aholibamah daughter of Anah, daughter of Zibeon, wife of Esau; and she beareth to Esau, Jeush and Jaalam and Korah.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> These [are] chiefs of the sons of Esau: sons of Eliphaz, first-born of Esau: chief Teman, chief Omar, chief Zepho, chief Kenaz,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> chief Korah, chief Gatam, chief Amalek; these [are] chiefs of Eliphaz, in the land of Edom; these [are] sons of Adah.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And these [are] sons of Reuel son of Esau: chief Nahath, chief Zerah, chief Shammah, chief Mizzah; these [are] chiefs of Reuel, in the land of Edom; these [are] sons of Bashemath wife of Esau.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And these [are] sons of Aholibamah wife of Esau: chief Jeush, chief Jaalam, chief Korah; these [are] chiefs of Aholibamah daughter of Anah, wife of Esau.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These [are] sons of Esau (who [is] Edom), and these their chiefs.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These [are] sons of Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan; these [are] chiefs of the Horites, sons of Seir, in the land of Edom.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the sons of Lotan are Hori and Heman; and a sister of Lotan [is] Timna.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And these [are] sons of Shobal: Alvan and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho and Onam.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And these [are] sons of Zibeon, both Ajah and Anah: it [is] Anah that hath found the Imim in the wilderness, in his feeding the asses of Zibeon his father.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And these [are] sons of Anah: Dishon, and Aholibamah daughter of Anah.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And these [are] sons of Dishon: Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These [are] sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> These [are] sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> These [are] chiefs of the Horite: chief Lotan, chief Shobal, chief Zibeon, chief Anah,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> chief Dishon, chief Ezer, chief Dishan: these [are] chiefs of the Horite in reference to their chiefs in the land of Seir.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And these [are] the kings who have reigned in the land of Edom before the reigning of a king over the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Bela son of Beor reigneth in Edom, and the name of his city [is] Dinhabah;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and Bela dieth, and reign in his stead doth Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and Jobab dieth, and reign in his stead doth Husham from the land of the Temanite.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Husham dieth, and reign in his stead doth Hadad son of Bedad (who smiteth Midian in the field of Moab), and the name of his city [is] Avith;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and Hadad dieth, and reign in his stead doth Samlah of Masrekah;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and Samlah dieth, and reign in his stead doth Saul from Rehoboth of the River;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and Saul dieth, and reign in his stead doth Baal-hanan son of Achbor;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and Baal-hanan son of Achbor dieth, and reign in his stead doth Hadar, and the name of his city [is] Pau; and his wife's name [is] Mehetabel daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And these [are] the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their families, according to their places, by their names: chief Timnah, chief Alvah, chief Jetheth,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> chief Aholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> chief Magdiel, chief Iram: these [are] chiefs of Edom, in reference to their dwellings, in the land of their possession; he [is] Esau father of Edom.</p>

</body>
</html>