<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And God blesseth Noah, and his sons, and saith to them, `Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and your fear and your dread is on every beast of the earth, and on every fowl of the heavens, on all that creepeth on the ground, and on all fishes of the sea--into your hand they have been given.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Every creeping thing that is alive, to you it is for food; as the green herb I have given to you the whole;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> only flesh in its life--its blood--ye do not eat.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `And only your blood for your lives do I require; from the hand of every living thing I require it, and from the hand of man, from the hand of every man's brother I require the life of man;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man is his blood shed: for in the image of God hath He made man.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And ye, be fruitful and multiply, teem in the earth, and multiply in it.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And God speaketh unto Noah, and unto his sons with him, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `And I, lo, I am establishing My covenant with you, and with your seed after you,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and with every living creature which [is] with you, among fowl, among cattle, and among every beast of the earth with you, from all who are going out of the ark--to every beast of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I have established My covenant with you, and all flesh is not any more cut off by waters of a deluge, and there is not any more a deluge to destroy the earth.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And God saith, `This is a token of the covenant which I am giving between Me and you, and every living creature that [is] with you, to generations age-during;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> My bow I have given in the cloud, and it hath been for a token of a covenant between Me and the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and it hath come to pass (in My sending a cloud over the earth) that the bow hath been seen in the cloud,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and I have remembered My covenant which is between Me and you, and every living creature among all flesh, and the waters become no more a deluge to destroy all flesh;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the bow hath been in the cloud, and I have seen it--to remember the covenant age-during between God and every living creature among all flesh which [is] on the earth.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And God saith unto Noah, `This [is] a token of the covenant which I have established between Me and all flesh that [is] upon the earth.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the sons of Noah who are going out of the ark are Shem, and Ham, and Japheth; and Ham is father of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These three [are] sons of Noah, and from these hath all the earth been overspread.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Noah remaineth a man of the ground, and planteth a vineyard,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and drinketh of the wine, and is drunken, and uncovereth himself in the midst of the tent.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Ham, father of Canaan, seeth the nakedness of his father, and declareth to his two brethren without.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Shem taketh--Japheth also--the garment, and they place on the shoulder of them both, and go backward, and cover the nakedness of their father; and their faces [are] backward, and their father's nakedness they have not seen.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Noah awaketh from his wine, and knoweth that which his young son hath done to him,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and saith: `Cursed [is] Canaan, Servant of servants he is to his brethren.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he saith: `Blessed of Jehovah my God [is] Shem, And Canaan is servant to him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> God doth give beauty to Japheth, And he dwelleth in tents of Shem, And Canaan is servant to him.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Noah liveth after the deluge three hundred and fifty years;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and all the days of Noah are nine hundred and fifty years, and he dieth.</p>

</body>
</html>