<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And God saith unto Jacob, `Rise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there, and make there an altar to God, who appeared unto thee in thy fleeing from the face of Esau thy brother.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jacob saith unto his household, and unto all who [are] with him, `Turn aside the gods of the stranger which [are] in your midst, and cleanse yourselves, and change your garments;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and we rise, and go up to Bethel, and I make there an altar to God, who is answering me in the day of my distress, and is with me in the way that I have gone.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they give unto Jacob all the gods of the stranger that [are] in their hand, and the rings that [are] in their ears, and Jacob hideth them under the oak which [is] by Shechem;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and they journey, and the terror of God is on the cities which [are] round about them, and they have not pursued after the sons of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jacob cometh in to Luz which [is] in the land of Canaan (it [is] Bethel), he and all the people who [are] with him,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and he buildeth there an altar, and proclaimeth at the place the God of Bethel: for there had God been revealed unto him, in his fleeing from the face of his brother.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Deborah, Rebekah's nurse, dieth, and she is buried at the lower part of Bethel, under the oak, and he calleth its name `Oak of weeping.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And God appeareth unto Jacob again, in his coming from Padan-Aram, and blesseth him;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and God saith to him, `Thy name [is] Jacob: thy name is no more called Jacob, but Israel is thy name;' and He calleth his name Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And God saith to him, `I [am] God Almighty; be fruitful and multiply, a nation and an assembly of nations is from thee, and kings from thy loins go out;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and the land which I have given to Abraham and to Isaac--to thee I give it, yea to thy seed after thee I give the land.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And God goeth up from him, in the place where He hath spoken with him.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jacob setteth up a standing pillar in the place where He hath spoken with him, a standing pillar of stone, and he poureth on it an oblation, and he poureth on it oil;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Jacob calleth the name of the place where God spake with him Bethel.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they journey from Bethel, and there is yet a kibrath of land before entering Ephratha, and Rachel beareth, and is sharply pained in her bearing;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and it cometh to pass, in her being sharply pained in her bearing, that the midwife saith to her, `Fear not, for this also [is] a son for thee.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it cometh to pass in the going out of her soul (for she died), that she calleth his name Ben-Oni; and his father called him Benjamin;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and Rachel dieth, and is buried in the way to Ephratha, which [is] Bethlehem,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Jacob setteth up a standing pillar over her grave; which [is] the standing pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Israel journeyeth, and stretcheth out his tent beyond the tower of Edar;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and it cometh to pass in Israel's dwelling in that land, that Reuben goeth, and lieth with Bilhah his father's concubine; and Israel heareth.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the sons of Jacob are twelve. Sons of Leah: Jacob's first-born Reuben, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And sons of Bilhah, Rachel's maid-servant: Dan and Naphtali.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And sons of Zilpah, Leah's maid-servant: Gad and Asher. These [are] sons of Jacob, who have been born to him in Padan-Aram.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Jacob cometh unto Isaac his father, at Mamre, the city of Arba (which [is] Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac have sojourned.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the days of Isaac are a hundred and eighty years,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and Isaac expireth, and dieth, and is gathered unto his people, aged and satisfied with days; and bury him do Esau and Jacob his sons.</p>

</body>
</html>