<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And these [are] births of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth; and born to them are sons after the deluge.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Sons of Japheth [are] Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And sons of Gomer [are] Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And sons of Javan [are] Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By these have the isles of the nations been parted in their lands, each by his tongue, by their families, in their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And sons of Ham [are] Cush, and Mitzraim, and Phut, and Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And sons of Cush [are] Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtechah; and sons of Raamah [are] Sheba and Dedan.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Cush hath begotten Nimrod;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> he hath begun to be a hero in the land; he hath been a hero in hunting before Jehovah; therefore it is said, `As Nimrod the hero [in] hunting before Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the first part of his kingdom is Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> from that land he hath gone out to Asshur, and buildeth Nineveh, even the broad places of the city, and Calah,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Resen, between Nineveh and Calah; it [is] the great city.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Mitzraim hath begotten the Ludim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim, and the Naphtuhim,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the Pathrusim, and the Casluhim, (whence have come out Philistim,) and the Caphtorim.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Canaan hath begotten Sidon his first-born, and Heth,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite; and afterwards have the families of the Canaanite been scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the border of the Canaanite is from Sidon, [in] thy coming towards Gerar, unto Gaza; [in] thy coming towards Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, unto Lasha.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These [are] sons of Ham, by their families, by their tongues, in their lands, in their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> As to Shem, father of all sons of Eber, brother of Japheth the elder, he hath also begotten:</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Sons of Shem [are] Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And sons of Aram [are] Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Arphaxad hath begotten Salah, and Salah hath begotten Eber.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And to Eber have two sons been born; the name of the one [is] Peleg (for in his days hath the earth been divided,) and his brother's name [is] Joktan.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Joktan hath begotten Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab; all these [are] sons of Joktan;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and their dwelling is from Mesha, [in] thy coming towards Sephar, a mount of the east.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> These [are] sons of Shem, by their families, by their tongues, in their lands, by their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These [are] families of the sons of Noah, by their births, in their nations, and by these have the nations been parted in the earth after the deluge.</p>

</body>
</html>