<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jacob lifteth up his feet, and goeth towards the land of the sons of the east;</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he looketh, and lo, a well in the field, and lo, there three droves of a flock crouching by it, for from that well they water the droves, and the great stone [is] on the mouth of the well.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> (When thither have all the droves been gathered, and they have rolled the stone from off the mouth of the well, and have watered the flock, then they have turned back the stone on the mouth of the well to its place.)</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jacob saith to them, `My brethren, from whence [are] ye?' and they say, `We [are] from Haran.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he saith to them, `Have ye known Laban, son of Nahor?' and they say, `We have known.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he saith to them, `Hath he peace?' and they say, `Peace; and lo, Rachel his daughter is coming with the flock.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he saith, `Lo, the day [is] still great, [it is] not time for the cattle to be gathered; water ye the flock, and go, delight yourselves.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they say, `We are not able, till that all the droves be gathered together, and they have rolled away the stone from the mouth of the well, and we have watered the flock.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He is yet speaking with them, and Rachel hath come with the flock which her father hath, for she [is] shepherdess;</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and it cometh to pass when Jacob hath seen Rachel, daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the flock of Laban his mother's brother, that Jacob cometh nigh and rolleth the stone from off the mouth of the well, and watereth the flock of Laban his mother's brother.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jacob kisseth Rachel, and lifteth up his voice, and weepeth,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Jacob declareth to Rachel that he [is] her father's brother, and that he [is] Rebekah's son, and she runneth and declareth to her father.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it cometh to pass, when Laban heareth the report of Jacob his sister's son, that he runneth to meet him, and embraceth him, and kisseth him, and bringeth him in unto his house; and he recounteth to Laban all these things,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Laban saith to him, `Only my bone and my flesh [art] thou;' and he dwelleth with him a month of days.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Laban saith to Jacob, `Is it because thou [art] my brother that thou hast served me for nought? declare to me what [is] thy hire.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Laban hath two daughters, the name of the elder [is] Leah, and the name of the younger Rachel,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the eyes of Leah [are] tender, and Rachel hath been fair of form and fair of appearance.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jacob loveth Rachel, and saith, `I serve thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter:'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and Laban saith, `It is better for me to give her to thee than to give her to another man; dwell with me;'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Jacob serveth for Rachel seven years; and they are in his eyes as some days, because of his loving her.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Jacob saith unto Laban, `Give up my wife, for my days have been fulfilled, and I go in unto her;'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and Laban gathereth all the men of the place, and maketh a banquet.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And it cometh to pass in the evening, that he taketh Leah, his daughter, and bringeth her in unto him, and he goeth in unto her;</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and Laban giveth to her Zilpah, his maid-servant, to Leah his daughter, a maidservant.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And it cometh to pass in the morning, that lo, it [is] Leah; and he saith unto Laban, `What [is] this thou hast done to me? for Rachel have I not served with thee? and why hast thou deceived me?'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Laban saith, `It is not done so in our place, to give the younger before the firstborn;</p>

<p><a id="c29_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> fulfil the week of this one, and we give to thee also this one, for the service which thou dost serve with me yet seven other years.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Jacob doth so, and fulfilleth the week of this one, and he giveth to him Rachel his daughter, to him for a wife;</p>

<p><a id="c29_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and Laban giveth to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his maid-servant, for a maid-servant to her.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he goeth in also unto Rachel, and he also loveth Rachel more than Leah; and he serveth with him yet seven other years.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Jehovah seeth that Leah [is] the hated one, and He openeth her womb, and Rachel [is] barren;</p>

<p><a id="c29_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and Leah conceiveth, and beareth a son, and calleth his name Reuben, for she said, `Because Jehovah hath looked on mine affliction; because now doth my husband love me.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And she conceiveth again, and beareth a son, and saith, `Because Jehovah hath heard that I [am] the hated one, He also giveth to me even this [one];' and she calleth his name Simeon.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And she conceiveth again, and beareth a son, and saith, `Now [is] the time, my husband is joined unto me, because I have born to him three sons,' therefore hath [one] called his name Levi.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And she conceiveth again, and beareth a son, and saith this time, `I praise Jehovah;' therefore hath she called his name Judah; and she ceaseth from bearing.</p>

</body>
</html>