<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah saith unto Abram, `Go for thyself, from thy land, and from thy kindred, and from the house of thy father, unto the land which I shew thee.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I make thee become a great nation, and bless thee, and make thy name great; and be thou a blessing.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I bless those blessing thee, and him who is disesteeming thee I curse, and blessed in thee have been all families of the ground.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Abram goeth on, as Jehovah hath spoken unto him, and Lot goeth with him, and Abram [is] a son of five and seventy years in his going out from Charan.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Abram taketh Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they have gained, and the persons that they have obtained in Charan; and they go out to go towards the land of Canaan; and they come in to the land of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Abram passeth over into the land, unto the place Shechem, unto the oak of Moreh; and the Canaanite [is] then in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jehovah appeareth unto Abram, and saith, `To thy seed I give this land;' and he buildeth there an altar to Jehovah, who hath appeared unto him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he removeth from thence towards a mountain at the east of Beth-El, and stretcheth out the tent (Beth-El at the west, and Hai at the east), and he buildeth there an altar to Jehovah, and preacheth in the name of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Abram journeyeth, going on and journeying towards the south.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And there is a famine in the land, and Abram goeth down towards Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine [is] grievous in the land;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and it cometh to pass as he hath drawn near to enter Egypt, that he saith unto Sarai his wife, `Lo, I pray thee, I have known that thou [art] a woman of beautiful appearance;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and it hath come to pass that the Egyptians see thee, and they have said, `This [is] his wife,' and they have slain me, and thee they keep alive:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> say, I pray thee, thou [art] my sister, so that it is well with me because of thee, and my soul hath lived for thy sake.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it cometh to pass, at the entering of Abram into Egypt, that the Egyptians see the woman that she [is] exceeding fair;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and princes of Pharaoh see her, and praise her unto Pharaoh, and the woman is taken [to] Pharaoh's house;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and to Abram he hath done good because of her, and he hath sheep and oxen, and he-asses, and men-servants, and handmaids, and she-asses, and camels.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jehovah plagueth Pharaoh and his house--great plagues--for the matter of Sarai, Abram's wife.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Pharaoh calleth for Abram, and saith, `What [is] this thou hast done to me? why hast thou not declared to me that she [is] thy wife?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Why hast thou said, She [is] my sister, and I take her to myself for a wife? and now, lo, thy wife, take and go.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Pharaoh chargeth men concerning him, and they send him away, and his wife, an all that he hath.</p>

</body>
</html>