<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 44</h2>

<p><a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he commandeth him who [is] over his house, saying, `Fill the bags of the men [with] food, as they are able to bear, and put the money of each in the mouth of his bag;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and my cup, the silver cup, thou dost put in the mouth of the bag of the young one, and his corn-money;' and he doth according to the word of Joseph which he hath spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The morning is bright, and the men have been sent away, they and their asses--</p>

<p><a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> they have gone out of the city--they have not gone far off--and Joseph hath said to him who [is] over his house, `Rise, pursue after the men; and thou hast overtaken them, and thou hast said unto them, Why have ye recompensed evil for good?</p>

<p><a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Is not this that with which my lord drinketh? and he observeth diligently with it; ye have done evil [in] that which ye have done.'</p>

<p><a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he overtaketh them, and speaketh unto them these words,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and they say unto him, `Why doth my lord speak according to these words? far be it from thy servants to do according to this word;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> lo, the money which we found in the mouth of our bags we brought back unto thee from the land of Canaan, and how do we steal from the house of thy lord silver or gold?</p>

<p><a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> with whomsoever of thy servants it is found, he hath died, and we also are to my lord for servants.'</p>

<p><a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he saith, `Now, also, according to your words, so it [is]; he with whom it is found becometh my servant, and ye are acquitted;'</p>

<p><a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and they hasten and take down each his bag to the earth, and each openeth his bag;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and he searcheth--at the eldest he hath begun, and at the youngest he hath completed--and the cup is found in the bag of Benjamin;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and they rend their garments, and each ladeth his ass, and they turn back to the city.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Judah--his brethren also--cometh in unto the house of Joseph, and he is yet there, and they fall before him to the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Joseph saith to them, `What [is] this deed that ye have done? have ye not known that a man like me doth diligently observe?'</p>

<p><a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Judah saith, `What do we say to my lord? what do we speak? and what--do we justify ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants; lo, we [are] servants to my lord, both we, and he in whose hand the cup hath been found;'</p>

<p><a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and he saith, `Far be it from me to do this; the man in whose hand the cup hath been found, he becometh my servant; and ye, go ye up in peace unto your father.'</p>

<p><a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Judah cometh nigh unto him, and saith, `O, my lord, let thy servant speak, I pray thee, a word in the ears of my lord, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant--for thou art as Pharaoh.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My lord hath asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father or brother?</p>

<p><a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and we say unto my lord, We have a father, an aged one, and a child of old age, a little one; and his brother died, and he is left alone of his mother, and his father hath loved him.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> `And thou sayest unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, and I set mine eye upon him;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and we say unto my lord, The youth is not able to leave his father, when he hath left his father, then he hath died;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and thou sayest unto thy servants, If your young brother come not down with you, ye add not to see my face.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> `And it cometh to pass, that we have come up unto thy servant my father, that we declare to him the words of my lord;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and our father saith, Turn back, buy for us a little food,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and we say, We are not able to go down; if our young brother is with us, then we have gone down; for we are not able to see the man's face, and our young brother not with us.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> `And thy servant my father saith unto us, Ye--ye have known that two did my wife bare to me,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and the one goeth out from me, and I say, Surely he is torn--torn! and I have not seen him since;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> when ye have taken also this from my presence, and mischief hath met him, then ye have brought down my grey hairs with evil to sheol.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> `And now, at my coming in unto thy servant my father, and the youth not with us (and his soul is bound up in his soul),</p>

<p><a id="c44_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> then it hath come to pass when he seeth that the youth is not, that he hath died, and thy servants have brought down the grey hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to sheol;</p>

<p><a id="c44_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> for thy servant obtained the youth by surety from my father, saying, If I bring him not in unto thee--then I have sinned against my father all the days.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> `And now, let thy servant, I pray thee, abide instead of the youth a servant to my lord, and the youth goeth up with his brethren,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> for how do I go up unto my father, and the youth not with me? lest I look on the evil which doth find my father.'</p>

</body>
</html>