<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the whole earth is of one pronunciation, and of the same words,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and it cometh to pass, in their journeying from the east, that they find a valley in the land of Shinar, and dwell there;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and they say each one to his neighbour, `Give help, let us make bricks, and burn [them] thoroughly:' and the brick is to them for stone, and the bitumen hath been to them for mortar.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they say, `Give help, let us build for ourselves a city and tower, and its head in the heavens, and make for ourselves a name, lest we be scattered over the face of all the earth.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah cometh down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men have builded;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Jehovah saith, `Lo, the people [is] one, and one pronunciation [is] to them all, and this it hath dreamed of doing; and now, nothing is restrained from them of that which they have purposed to do.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Give help, let us go down, and mingle there their pronunciation, so that a man doth not understand the pronunciation of his companion.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah doth scatter them from thence over the face of all the earth, and they cease to build the city;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> therefore hath [one] called its name Babel, for there hath Jehovah mingled the pronunciation of all the earth, and from thence hath Jehovah scattered them over the face of all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> These [are] births of Shem: Shem [is] a son of an hundred years, and begetteth Arphaxad two years after the deluge.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Shem liveth after his begetting Arphaxad five hundred years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Arphaxad hath lived five and thirty years, and begetteth Salah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Arphaxad liveth after his begetting Salah four hundred and three years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Salah hath lived thirty years, and begetteth Eber.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Salah liveth after his begetting Eber four hundred and three years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Eber liveth four and thirty years, and begetteth Peleg.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Eber liveth after his begetting Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Peleg liveth thirty years, and begetteth Reu.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Peleg liveth after his begetting Reu two hundred and nine years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Reu liveth two and thirty years, and begetteth Serug.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Reu liveth after his begetting Serug two hundred and seven years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Serug liveth thirty years, and begetteth Nahor.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Serug liveth after his begetting Nahor two hundred years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Nahor liveth nine and twenty years, and begetteth Terah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Nahor liveth after his begetting Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Terah liveth seventy years, and begetteth Abram, Nahor, and Haran.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And these [are] births of Terah: Terah hath begotten Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran hath begotten Lot;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Haran dieth in the presence of Terah his father, in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldees.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Abram and Nahor take to themselves wives; the name of Abram's wife [is] Sarai, and the name of Nahor's wife [is] Milcah, daughter of Haran, father of Milcah, and father of Iscah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Sarai is barren--she hath no child.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Terah taketh Abram his son, and Lot, son of Haran, his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, wife of Abram his son, and they go out with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go towards the land of Canaan; and they come unto Charan, and dwell there.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the days of Terah are two hundred and five years, and Terah dieth in Charan.</p>

</body>
</html>