<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass that mankind have begun to multiply on the face of the ground, and daughters have been born to them,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and sons of God see the daughters of men that they [are] fair, and they take to themselves women of all whom they have chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jehovah saith, `My Spirit doth not strive in man--to the age; in their erring they [are] flesh:' and his days have been an hundred and twenty years.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The fallen ones were in the earth in those days, and even afterwards when sons of God come in unto daughters of men, and they have borne to them--they [are] the heroes, who, from of old, [are] the men of name.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah seeth that abundant [is] the wickedness of man in the earth, and every imagination of the thoughts of his heart only evil all the day;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Jehovah repenteth that He hath made man in the earth, and He grieveth Himself-- unto His heart.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jehovah saith, `I wipe away man whom I have prepared from off the face of the ground, from man unto beast, unto creeping thing, and unto fowl of the heavens, for I have repented that I have made them.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Noah found grace in the eyes of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> These [are] births of Noah: Noah [is] a righteous man; perfect he hath been among his generations; with God hath Noah walked habitually.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Noah begetteth three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the earth is corrupt before God, and the earth is filled [with] violence.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And God seeth the earth, and lo, it hath been corrupted, for all flesh hath corrupted its way on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And God said to Noah, `An end of all flesh hath come before Me, for the earth hath been full of violence from their presence; and lo, I am destroying them with the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `Make for thyself an ark of gopher-wood; rooms dost thou make with the ark, and thou hast covered it within and without with cypress;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and this [is] that which thou dost with it: three hundred cubits [is] the length of the ark, fifty cubits its breadth, and thirty cubits its height;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> a window dost thou make for the ark, and unto a cubit thou dost restrain it from above; and the opening of the ark thou dost put in its side, --lower, second, and third [stories] dost thou make it.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `And I, lo, I am bringing in the deluge of waters on the earth to destroy all flesh, in which [is] a living spirit, from under the heavens; all that [is] in the earth doth expire.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `And I have established My covenant with thee, and thou hast come in unto the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy son's wives with thee;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and of all that liveth, of all flesh, two of every [sort] thou dost bring in unto the ark, to keep alive with thee; male and female are they.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Of the fowl after its kind, and of the cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the ground after its kind, two of every [sort] they come in unto thee, to keep alive.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> `And thou, take to thyself of all food that is eaten; and thou hast gathered unto thyself, and it hath been to thee and to them for food.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Noah doth according to all that God hath commanded him; so hath he done.</p>

</body>
</html>