<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Abram goeth up from Egypt (he and his wife, and all that he hath, and Lot with him) towards the south;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and Abram [is] exceedingly wealthy in cattle, in silver, and in gold.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he goeth on his journeyings from the south, even unto Bethel, unto the place where his tent had been at the commencement, between Bethel and Hai--</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> unto the place of the altar which he made there at the first, and there doth Abram preach in the name of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And also to Lot, who is going with Abram, there hath been sheep and oxen and tents;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the land hath not suffered them to dwell together, for their substance hath been much, and they have not been able to dwell together;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and there is a strife between those feeding Abram's cattle and those feeding Lot's cattle; and the Canaanite and the Perizzite [are] then dwelling in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Abram saith unto Lot, `Let there not, I pray thee, be strife between me and thee, and between my shepherds and thy shepherds, for we [are] men--brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is not all the land before thee? be parted, I pray thee, from me; if to the left, then I to the right; and if to the right, then I to the left.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Lot lifteth up his eyes, and seeth the whole circuit of the Jordan that it [is] all a watered country (before Jehovah's destroying Sodom and Gomorrah, as Jehovah's garden, as the land of Egypt,) in thy coming toward Zoar,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Lot chooseth for himself the whole circuit of the Jordan; and Lot journeyeth from the east, and they are parted--a man from his companion;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Abram hath dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot hath dwelt in the cities of the circuit, and tenteth unto Sodom;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and the men of Sodom [are] evil, and sinners before Jehovah exceedingly.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jehovah said unto Abram, after Lot's being parted from him, `Lift up, I pray thee, thine eyes, and look from the place where thou [art], northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for the whole of the land which thou are seeing, to thee I give it, and to thy seed--to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I have set thy seed as dust of the earth, so that, if one is able to number the dust of the earth, even thy seed is numbered;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> rise, go up and down through the land, to its length, and to its breadth, for to thee I give it.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Abram tenteth, and cometh, and dwelleth among the oaks of Mamre, which [are] in Hebron, and buildeth there an altar to Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>