<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This [is] an account of the births of Adam: In the day of God's preparing man, in the likeness of God He hath made him;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> a male and a female He hath prepared them, and He blesseth them, and calleth their name Man, in the day of their being prepared.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Adam liveth an hundred and thirty years, and begetteth [a son] in his likeness, according to his image, and calleth his name Seth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the days of Adam after his begetting Seth are eight hundred years, and he begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And all the days of Adam which he lived are nine hundred and thirty years, and he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Seth liveth an hundred and five years, and begetteth Enos.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Seth liveth after his begetting Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And all the days of Seth are nine hundred and twelve years, and he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Enos liveth ninety years, and begetteth Cainan.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Enos liveth after his begetting Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And all the days of Enos are nine hundred and five years, and he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Cainan liveth seventy years, and begetteth Mahalaleel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Cainan liveth after his begetting Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And all the days of Cainan are nine hundred and ten years, and he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Mahalaleel liveth five and sixty years, and begetteth Jared.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Mahalaleel liveth after his begetting Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And all the days of Mahalaleel are eight hundred and ninety and five years, and he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jared liveth an hundred and sixty and two years, and begetteth Enoch.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Jared liveth after his begetting Enoch eight hundred years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And all the days of Jared are nine hundred and sixty and two years, and he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Enoch liveth five and sixty years, and begetteth Methuselah.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Enoch walketh habitually with God after his begetting Methuselah three hundred years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And all the days of Enoch are three hundred and sixty and five years.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Enoch walketh habitually with God, and he is not, for God hath taken him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Methuselah liveth an hundred and eighty and seven years, and begetteth Lamech.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Methuselah liveth after his begetting Lamech seven hundred and eighty and two years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And all the days of Methuselah are nine hundred and sixty and nine years, and he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Lamech liveth an hundred and eighty and two years, and begetteth a son,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and calleth his name Noah, saying, `This [one] doth comfort us concerning our work, and concerning the labour of our hands, because of the ground which Jehovah hath cursed.'</p>

<p><a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Lamech liveth after his begetting Noah five hundred and ninety and five years, and begetteth sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And all the days of Lamech are seven hundred and seventy and seven years, and he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Noah is a son of five hundred years, and Noah begetteth Shem, Ham, and Japheth.</p>

</body>
</html>