<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 46</h2>

<p><a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Israel journeyeth, and all that he hath, and cometh in to Beer-Sheba, and sacrificeth sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac;</p>

<p><a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and God speaketh to Israel in visions of the night, and saith, `Jacob, Jacob;' and he saith, `Here [am] I.'</p>

<p><a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And He saith, `I [am] God, God of thy father, be not afraid of going down to Egypt, for for a great nation I set thee there;</p>

<p><a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I--I go down with thee to Egypt, and I--I also certainly bring thee up, and Joseph doth put his hand on thine eyes.'</p>

<p><a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jacob riseth from Beer-Sheba, and the sons of Israel bear away Jacob their father, And their infants, and their wives, in the waggons which Pharaoh hath sent to bear him,</p>

<p><a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and they take their cattle, and their goods which they have acquired in the land of Canaan, and come into Egypt--Jacob, and all his seed with him,</p>

<p><a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> his sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters, yea, all his seed he brought with him into Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And these [are] the names of the sons of Israel who are coming into Egypt: Jacob and his sons, Jacob's first-born, Reuben.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And sons of Reuben: Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And sons of Simeon: Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul son of the Canaanitess.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zarah, (and Er and Onan die in the land of Canaan.) And sons of Pharez are Hezron and Hamul.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And sons of Issachar: Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And sons of Zebulun: Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> These [are] sons of Leah whom she bare to Jacob in Padan-Aram, and Dinah his daughter; all the persons of his sons and his daughters [are] thirty and three.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And sons of Gad: Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And sons of Asher: Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and Serah their sister. And sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> These [are] sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and she beareth these to Jacob--sixteen persons.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife: Joseph and Benjamin.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And born to Joseph in the land of Egypt (whom Asenath daughter of Poti-Pherah, priest of On, hath borne to him) [are] Manasseh and Ephraim.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And sons of Benjamin: Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> These [are] sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob; all the persons [are] fourteen.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And sons of Dan: Hushim.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These [are] sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter; and she beareth these to Jacob--all the persons [are] seven.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All the persons who are coming to Jacob to Egypt, coming out of his thigh, apart from the wives of Jacob's sons, all the persons [are] sixty and six.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the sons of Joseph who have been born to him in Egypt [are] two persons. All the persons of the house of Jacob who are coming into Egypt [are] seventy.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Judah he hath sent before him unto Joseph, to direct before him to Goshen, and they come into the land of Goshen;</p>

<p><a id="c46_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and Joseph harnesseth his chariot, and goeth up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen, and appeareth unto him, and falleth on his neck, and weepeth on his neck again;</p>

<p><a id="c46_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and Israel saith unto Joseph, `Let me die this time, after my seeing thy face, for thou [art] yet alive.'</p>

<p><a id="c46_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Joseph saith unto his brethren, and unto the house of his father, `I go up, and declare to Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and the house of my father who [are] in the land of Canaan have come in unto me;</p>

<p><a id="c46_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and the men [are] feeders of a flock, for they have been men of cattle; and their flock, and their herd, and all that they have, they have brought.'</p>

<p><a id="c46_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> `And it hath come to pass when Pharaoh calleth for you, and hath said, What [are] your works?</p>

<p><a id="c46_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> that ye have said, Thy servants have been men of cattle from our youth, even until now, both we and our fathers, --in order that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen, for the abomination of the Egyptians is every one feeding a flock.'</p>

</body>
</html>