<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Bezaleel, and Aholiab, and every wise-hearted man, in whom Jehovah hath given wisdom and understanding to know to do every work of the service of the sanctuary, have done according to all that Jehovah commanded.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Moses calleth unto Bezaleel, and unto Aholiab, and unto every wise-hearted man in whose heart Jehovah hath given wisdom, every one whom his heart lifted up, to come near unto the work to do it.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they take from before Moses all the heave-offering which the sons of Israel have brought in for the work of the service of the sanctuary to do it; and still they have brought in unto him a willing-offering morning by morning.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And all the wise men, who are doing all the work of the sanctuary, come each from his work which they are doing,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and speak unto Moses, saying, `The people are multiplying to bring in more than sufficient for the service of the work which Jehovah commanded to make.'</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses commandeth, and they cause a voice to pass over through the camp, saying, `Let not man or woman make any more work for the heave-offering of the sanctuary;' and the people are restrained from bringing,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the work hath been sufficient for them, for all the work, to do it, and to leave.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And all the wise-hearted ones among the doers of the work make the tabernacle; ten curtains of twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, [with] cherubs, work of a designer, he hath made them.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The length of the one curtain [is] eight and twenty by the cubit, and the breadth of the one curtain four by the cubit; one measure [is] to all the curtains.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he joineth the five curtains one unto another, and the [other] five curtains he hath joined one unto another;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and he maketh loops of blue on the edge of the one curtain, at the end, in the joining; so he hath made in the edge of the outmost curtain, in the joining of the second;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> fifty loops he hath made in the one curtain, and fifty loops hath he made in the end of the curtain which [is] in the joining of the second; the loops are taking hold one on another.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he maketh fifty hooks of gold, and joineth the curtains one unto another by the hooks, and the tabernacle is one.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he maketh curtains of goats' [hair] for a tent over the tabernacle; eleven curtains he hath made them;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> the length of the one curtain [is] thirty by the cubit, and the breadth of the one curtain [is] four cubits; one measure [is] to the eleven curtains;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and he joineth the five curtains apart, and the six curtains apart.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he maketh fifty loops on the outer edge of the curtain, in the joining; and fifty loops he hath made on the edge of the curtain which is joining the second;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and he maketh fifty hooks of brass to join the tent--to be one;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and he maketh a covering for the tent of rams' skins made red, and a covering of badgers' skins above.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he maketh the boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood, standing up;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> ten cubits [is] the length of the [one] board, and a cubit and a half the breadth of the [one] board;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> two handles [are] to the one board, joined one unto another; so he hath made for all the boards of the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he maketh the boards for the tabernacle; twenty boards for the south side southward;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and forty sockets of silver he hath made under the twenty boards, two sockets under the one board for its two handles, and two sockets under the other board for its two handles.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And for the second side of the tabernacle, for the north side, he hath made twenty boards,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and their forty sockets of silver, two sockets under the one board, and two sockets under the other board;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and for the sides of the tabernacle, westward, hath he made six boards;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and two boards hath he made for the corners of the tabernacle, in the two sides;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and they have been twins below, and together they are twins at its head, at the one ring; so he hath done to both of them at the two corners;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and there have been eight boards; and their sockets of silver [are] sixteen sockets, two sockets under the one board.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he maketh bars of shittim wood, five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and five bars for the boards of the second side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle, for the sides westward;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and he maketh the middle bar to enter into the midst of the boards from end to end;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and the boards he hath overlaid with gold, and their rings he hath made of gold, places for bars, and he overlayeth the bars with gold.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he maketh the vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, work of a designer he hath made it, [with] cherubs;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and he maketh for it four pillars of shittim [wood], and overlayeth them with gold; their pegs [are] of gold; and he casteth for them four sockets of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he maketh a covering for the opening of the tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, work of an embroiderer,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> also its five pillars, and their pegs; and he overlaid their tops and their fillets [with] gold, and their five sockets [are] brass.</p>

</body>
</html>