<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `Thou dost not lift up a vain report; thou dost not put thy hand with a wicked man to be a violent witness.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Thou art not after many to evil, nor dost thou testify concerning a strife, to turn aside after many to cause [others] to turn aside;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and a poor man thou dost not honour in his strife.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `When thou meetest thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou dost certainly turn it back to him;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> when thou seest the ass of him who is hating thee crouching under its burden, then thou hast ceased from leaving [it] to it--thou dost certainly leave [it] with him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> `Thou dost not turn aside the judgment of thy needy one in his strife;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> from a false matter thou dost keep far off, and an innocent and righteous man thou dost not slay; for I do not justify a wicked man.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `And a bribe thou dost not take; for the bribe bindeth the open -[eyed], and perverteth the words of the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `And a sojourner thou dost not oppress, and ye--ye have known the soul of the sojourner, for sojourners ye have been in the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `And six years thou dost sow thy land, and hast gathered its increase;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the seventh thou dost release it, and hast left it, and the needy of thy people have eaten, and their leaving doth the beast of the field eat; so dost thou to thy vineyard--to thine oliveyard.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `Six days thou dost do thy work, and on the seventh day thou dost rest, so that thine ox and thine ass doth rest, and the son of thine handmaid and the sojourner is refreshed;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and in all that which I have said unto you ye do take heed; and the name of other gods ye do not mention; it is not heard on thy mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `Three times thou dost keep a feast to Me in a year;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> the Feast of Unleavened things thou dost keep; seven days thou dost eat unleavened things, as I have commanded thee, at the time appointed [in] the month of Abib; for in it thou hast come forth out of Egypt, and ye do not appear [in] My presence empty;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the Feast of Harvest, the first fruits of thy works which thou sowest in the field; and the Feast of the In-Gathering, in the outgoing of the year, in thy gathering thy works out of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `Three times in a year do all thy males appear before the face of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `Thou dost not sacrifice on a fermented thing the blood of My sacrifice, and the fat of My festival doth not remain till morning;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> the beginning of the first-fruits of thy ground thou dost bring into the house of Jehovah thy God; thou dost not boil a kid in its mother's milk.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `Lo, I am sending a messenger before thee to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee in unto the place which I have prepared;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> be watchful because of his presence, and hearken to his voice, rebel not against him, for he beareth not with your transgression, for My name [is] in his heart;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for, if thou diligently hearken to his voice, and hast done all that which I speak, then I have been at enmity with thine enemies, and have distressed those distressing thee.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `For My messenger goeth before thee, and hath brought thee in unto the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, and I have cut them off.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> `Thou dost not bow thyself to their gods, nor serve them, nor do according to their doings, but dost utterly devote them, and thoroughly break their standing pillars.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> `And ye have served Jehovah your God, and He hath blessed thy bread and thy water, and I have turned aside sickness from thine heart;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> there is not a miscarrying and barren one in thy land; the number of thy days I fulfil:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My terror I send before thee, and I have put to death all the people among whom thou comest, and I have given the neck of all thine enemies unto thee.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> `And I have sent the hornet before thee, and it hath cast out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I cast them not out from before thee in one year, lest the land be a desolation, and the beast of the field hath multiplied against thee;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> little [by] little I cast them out from before thee, till thou art fruitful, and hast inherited the land.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> `And I have set thy border from the Red Sea, even unto the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness unto the River: for I give into your hand the inhabitants of the land, and thou hast cast them out from before thee;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> thou dost not make a covenant with them, and with their gods;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> they do not dwell in thy land, lest they cause thee to sin against Me when thou servest their gods, when it becometh a snare to thee.'</p>

</body>
</html>