<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `And thou hast made the altar of shittim wood, five cubits the length, and five cubits the breadth--the altar is square--and three cubits its height.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And thou hast made its horns on its four corners, its horns are of the same, and thou hast overlaid it [with] brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou hast made its pots to remove its ashes, and its shovels, and its bowls, and its forks, and its fire-pans, even all its vessels thou dost make of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `And thou hast made for it a grate of net-work of brass, and hast made on the net four rings of brass on its four extremities,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and hast put it under the compass of the altar beneath, and the net hath been unto the middle of the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> `And thou hast made staves for the altar, staves of shittim wood, and hast overlaid them [with] brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the staves have been brought into the rings, and the staves have been on the two sides of the altar in bearing it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hollow with boards thou dost make it, as it hath been shewed thee in the mount, so do they make [it].</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `And thou hast made the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward, hangings for the court of twined linen, a hundred by the cubit [is] the length for the one side,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets [are] of brass, the pegs of the pillars and their fillets [are] of silver;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and so for the north side in length, hangings of a hundred [cubits] in length, and its twenty pillars and their twenty sockets [are] of brass, the pegs of the pillars and their fillets [are] of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `And [for] the breadth of the court at the west side [are] hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And [for] the breadth of the court at the east side, eastward, [are] fifty cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the hangings at the side [are] fifteen cubits, their pillars three, and their sockets three.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And at the second side [are] hangings fifteen [cubits], their pillars three, and their sockets three.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `And for the gate of the court a covering of twenty cubits, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, work of an embroiderer; their pillars four, their sockets four.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the pillars of the court round about [are] filleted [with] silver, their pegs [are] silver, and their sockets brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `The length of the court [is] a hundred by the cubit, and the breadth fifty by fifty, and the height five cubits, of twined linen, and their sockets [are] brass,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> even all the vessels of the tabernacle, in all its service, and all its pins, and all the pins of the court, [are] brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `And thou--thou dost command the sons of Israel, and they bring unto thee pure beaten olive oil for the light, to cause the lamp to go up continually;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> in the tent of meeting, at the outside of the vail, which [is] over the testimony, doth Aaron--his sons also--arrange it from evening till morning before Jehovah--a statute age-during to their generations, from the sons of Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>