<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `On the first day of the month, in the first month, thou dost raise up the tabernacle of the tent of meeting,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and hast set there the ark of the testimony, and hast covered over the ark with the vail,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and hast brought in the table, and set its arrangement in order, and hast brought in the candlestick, and caused its lamps to go up.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `And thou hast put the golden altar for perfume before the ark of the testimony, and hast put the covering of the opening to the tabernacle,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and hast put the altar of the burnt-offering before the opening of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and hast put the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and hast put water there.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `And thou hast set the court round about, and hast placed the covering of the gate of the court,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and hast taken the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle, and all that [is] in it, and hallowed it, and all its vessels, and it hath been holy;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and thou hast anointed the altar of the burnt-offering, and all its vessels, and sanctified the altar, and the altar hath been most holy;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and thou hast anointed the laver and its base, and sanctified it.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `And thou hast brought near Aaron and his sons unto the opening of the tent of meeting, and hast bathed them with water;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and thou hast clothed Aaron with the holy garments, and anointed him, and sanctified him, and he hath acted as priest to Me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `And his sons thou dost bring near, and hast clothed them with coats,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and anointed them as thou hast anointed their father, and they have acted as priests to Me, and their anointing hath been to be to them for a priesthood age-during, to their generations.'</p>

<p><a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Moses doth according to all that Jehovah hath commanded him; so he hath done.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it cometh to pass, in the first month, in the second year, in the first of the month, the tabernacle hath been raised up;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and Moses raiseth up the tabernacle, and setteth its sockets, and placeth its boards, and placeth its bars, and raiseth its pillars,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and spreadeth the tent over the tabernacle, and putteth the covering of the tent upon it above, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he taketh and putteth the testimony unto the ark, and setteth the staves on the ark, and putteth the mercy-seat on the ark above;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and bringeth in the ark unto the tabernacle, and placeth the vail of the covering, and covereth over the ark of the testimony, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he putteth the table in the tent of meeting, on the side of the tabernacle northward, at the outside of the vail,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and setteth in order upon it the arrangement of bread, before Jehovah, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he putteth the candlestick in the tent of meeting, over-against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and causeth the lamps to go up before Jehovah, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he setteth the golden altar in the tent of meeting, before the vail,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and maketh perfume on it--spice-perfume--as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he setteth the covering of the opening to the tabernacle,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and the altar of the burnt-offering he hath set at the opening of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and causeth the burnt-offering to go up upon it, and the present, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he putteth the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and putteth water there for washing,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and Moses and Aaron and his sons have washed their hands and their feet at the same;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> in their going in unto the tent of meeting, and in their drawing near unto the altar, they wash, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he raiseth up the court round about the tabernacle, and about the altar, and placeth the covering of the gate of the court; and Moses completeth the work.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the cloud covereth the tent of meeting, and the honour of Jehovah hath filled the tabernacle;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and Moses hath not been able to go in unto the tent of meeting, for the cloud hath tabernacled on it, and the honour of Jehovah hath filled the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And in the going up of the cloud from off the tabernacle the sons of Israel journey in all their journeys;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and if the cloud go not up then they journey not, until the day of its going up:</p>

<p><a id="c40_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> for the cloud of Jehovah [is] on the tabernacle by day, and fire is in it by night, before the eyes of all the house of Israel in all their journeys.</p>

</body>
</html>