<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `And God speaketh all these words, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I [am] Jehovah thy God, who hath brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of a house of servants.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> `Thou hast no other Gods before Me.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `Thou dost not make to thyself a graven image, or any likeness which [is] in the heavens above, or which [is] in the earth beneath, or which [is] in the waters under the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou dost not bow thyself to them, nor serve them: for I, Jehovah thy God, [am] a zealous God, charging iniquity of fathers on sons, on the third [generation], and on the fourth, of those hating Me,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and doing kindness to thousands, of those loving Me and keeping My commands.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> `Thou dost not take up the name of Jehovah thy God for a vain thing, for Jehovah acquitteth not him who taketh up His name for a vain thing.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `Remember the Sabbath-day to sanctify it;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> six days thou dost labour, and hast done all thy work,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the seventh day [is] a Sabbath to Jehovah thy God; thou dost not do any work, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, thy man-servant, and thy handmaid, and thy cattle, and thy sojourner who is within thy gates, --</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for six days hath Jehovah made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that [is] in them, and resteth in the seventh day; therefore hath Jehovah blessed the Sabbath-day, and doth sanctify it.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `Honour thy father and thy mother, so that thy days are prolonged on the ground which Jehovah thy God is giving to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> `Thou dost not murder.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `Thou dost not commit adultery.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `Thou dost not steal.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `Thou dost not answer against thy neighbour a false testimony.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `Thou dost not desire the house of thy neighbour, thou dost not desire the wife of thy neighbour, or his man-servant, or his handmaid, or his ox, or his ass, or anything which [is] thy neighbour's.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And all the people are seeing the voices, and the flames, and the sound of the trumpet, and the mount smoking; and the people see, and move, and stand afar off,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and say unto Moses, `Speak thou with us, and we hear, and let not God speak with us, lest we die.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Moses saith unto the people, `Fear not, for to try you hath God come, and in order that His fear may be before your faces--that ye sin not.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the people stand afar off, and Moses hath drawn nigh unto the thick darkness where God [is].</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jehovah saith unto Moses, `Thus dost thou say unto the sons of Israel: Ye--ye have seen that from the heavens I have spoken with you;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> ye do not make with Me gods of silver, even gods of gold ye do not make to yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> `An altar of earth thou dost make for Me, and thou hast sacrificed on it thy burntofferings and thy peace-offerings, thy flock and thy herd; in every place where I cause My name to be remembered I come in unto thee, and have blessed thee.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> `And if an altar of stones thou dost make to Me, thou dost not build them of hewn work; when thy tool thou hast waved over it, then thou dost pollute it;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> neither dost thou go up by steps on Mine altar, that thy nakedness be not revealed upon it.</p>

</body>
</html>