<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And of the blue, and the purple, and the scarlet, they made coloured garments, to minister in the sanctuary; and they make the holy garments which [are] for Aaron, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he maketh the ephod, of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and they expand the plates of gold, and have cut off wires to work in the midst of the blue, and in the midst of the purple, and in the midst of the scarlet, and in the midst of the linen-- work of a designer;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> shoulder-pieces they have made for it, joining; at its two ends it is joined.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the girdle of his ephod which [is] on it is of the same, according to its work, of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they prepare the shoham stones, set, embroidered [with] gold, opened with openings of a signet, by the names of the sons of Israel;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and he setteth them on the shoulders of the ephod--stones of memorial for the sons of Israel, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he maketh the breastplate, work of a designer, like the work of the ephod, of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> it hath been square; double they have made the breastplate, a span its length, and a span its breadth, doubled.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they fill in it four rows of stones; a row of a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle [is] the one row;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the second row an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and the third row an opal, an agate, and an amethyst;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and the fourth row a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper--set, embroidered [with] gold, in their settings.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the stones, according to the names of the sons of Israel, are twelve, according to their names, openings of a signet, each according to his name, for the twelve tribes.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they make on the breastplate wreathed chains, work of thick bands, of pure gold;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and they make two embroidered things of gold, and two rings of gold, and put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and they put the two thick bands of gold on the two rings on the ends of the breastplate;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and the two ends of the two thick bands they have put on the two embroidered things, and they put them on the shoulders of the ephod, over-against its front.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they make two rings of gold, and set [them] on the two ends of the breastplate, on its border, which [is] on the side of the ephod within;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and they make two rings of gold, and put them on the two shoulders of the ephod below, over-against its front, over-against its joining, above the girdle of the ephod;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and they bind the breastplate by its rings unto the rings of the ephod, with a ribbon of blue, to be above the girdle of the ephod, and the breastplate is not loosed from off the ephod, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he maketh the upper robe of the ephod, work of a weaver, completely of blue;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and the opening of the upper robe [is] in its midst, as the opening of a habergeon, a border [is] to its opening round about, it is not rent;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and they make on the hems of the upper robe pomegranates of blue, and purple, and scarlet, twined.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they make bells of pure gold, and put the bells in the midst of the pomegranates, on the hems of the upper robe, round about, in the midst of the pomegranates;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, [are] on the hems of the upper robe, round about, to minister in, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they make the coats of linen, work of a weaver, for Aaron and for his sons,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and the mitre of linen, and the beautiful bonnets of linen, and the linen trousers, of twined linen,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and the girdle of twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, work of an embroiderer, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And they make the flower of the holy crown of pure gold, and write on it a writing, openings of a signet, `Holy to Jehovah;'</p>

<p><a id="c39_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and they put on it a ribbon of blue, to put [it] on the mitre above, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And all the service of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting is completed; and the sons of Israel do according to all that Jehovah hath commanded Moses; so they have done.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they bring in the tabernacle unto Moses, the tent, and all its vessels, its hooks, its boards, its bars, and its pillars, and its sockets;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and the covering of rams' skins, which are made red, and the covering of badgers' skins, and the vail of the covering;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> the ark of the testimony and its staves, and the mercy-seat;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> the table, all its vessels, and the bread of the presence;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> the pure candlestick, its lamps, the lamps of arrangement, and all its vessels, and the oil for the light.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the golden altar, and the anointing oil, and the spice-perfume, and the covering of the opening of the tent;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> the brazen altar and the brazen grate which it hath, its staves, and all its vessels, the laver and its base.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The hangings of the court, its pillars, and its sockets; and the covering for the gate of the court, its cords, and its pins; and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of meeting;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> the coloured clothes to minister in the sanctuary, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to act as priest in.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> According to all that Jehovah hath commanded Moses, so have the sons of Israel done all the service;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> and Moses seeth all the work, and lo, they have done it as Jehovah hath commanded; so they have done. And Moses doth bless them.</p>

</body>
</html>