<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Speak unto the sons of Israel, and thou hast said unto them, I [am] Jehovah your God;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> according to the work of the land of Egypt in which ye have dwelt ye do not, and according to the work of the land of Canaan whither I am bringing you in, ye do not, and in their statutes ye walk not.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `My judgments ye do, and My statutes ye keep, to walk in them; I [am] Jehovah your God;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and ye have kept My statutes and My judgments which man doth and liveth in them; I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> `None of you unto any relation of his flesh doth draw near to uncover nakedness; I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> `The nakedness of thy father and the nakedness of thy mother thou dost not uncover, she [is] thy mother; thou dost not uncover her nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `The nakedness of the wife of thy father thou dost not uncover; it [is] the nakedness of thy father.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `The nakedness of thy sister, daughter of thy father, or daughter of thy mother, born at home or born without; thou dost not uncover their nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or of thy daughter's daughter: thou dost not uncover their nakedness; for theirs [is] thy nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `The nakedness of a daughter of thy father's wife, begotten of thy father, she [is] thy sister; thou dost not uncover her nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `The nakedness of a sister of thy father thou dost not uncover; she [is] a relation of thy father.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> `The nakedness of thy mother's sister thou dost not uncover; for she [is] thy mother's relation.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `The nakedness of thy father's brother thou dost not uncover; unto his wife thou dost not draw near; she [is] thine aunt.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `The nakedness of thy daughter-in-law thou dost not uncover; she [is] thy son's wife; thou dost not uncover her nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `The nakedness of thy brother's wife thou dost not uncover; it [is] thy brother's nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `The nakedness of a woman and her daughter thou dost not uncover; her son's daughter, and her daughter's daughter thou dost not take to uncover her nakedness; they [are] her relations; it [is] wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `And a woman unto another thou dost not take, to be an adversary, to uncover her nakedness beside her, in her life.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> `And unto a woman in the separation of her uncleanness thou dost not draw near to uncover her nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `And unto the wife of thy fellow thou dost not give thy seed of copulation, for uncleanness with her.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> `And of thy seed thou dost not give to pass over to the Molech; nor dost thou pollute the name of thy God; I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> `And with a male thou dost not lie as one lieth with a woman; abomination it [is].</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `And with any beast thou dost not give thy copulation, for uncleanness with it; and a woman doth not stand before a beast to lie down with it; confusion it [is].</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> `Ye are not defiled with all these, for with all these have the nations been defiled which I am sending away from before you;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and the land is defiled, and I charge its iniquity upon it, and the land vomiteth out its inhabitants:</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and ye--ye have kept My statutes and My judgments, and do not [any] of all these abominations, the native and the sojourner who is sojourning in your midst,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> (for all these abominations have the men of the land done who [are] before you, and the land is defiled),</p>

<p><a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and the land doth not vomit you out in your defiling it, as it hath vomited out the nation which [is] before you;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> for any one who doth [any] of all these abominations--even the persons who are doing [so], have been cut off from the midst of their people;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and ye have kept My charge, so as not to do [any] of the abominable statutes which have been done before you, and ye do not defile yourselves with them; I [am] Jehovah your God.'</p>

</body>
</html>