<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `And when a person bringeth near an offering, a present to Jehovah, of flour is his offering, and he hath poured on it oil, and hath put on it frankincense;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he hath brought it in unto the sons of Aaron, the priests, and he hath taken from thence the fulness of his hand of its flour and of its oil, besides all its frankincense, and the priest hath made perfume with its memorial on the altar,a fire-offering of sweet fragrance to Jehovah;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and the remnant of the present [is] for Aaron and for his sons, most holy, of the fireofferings of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `And when thou bringest near an offering, a present baked in an oven, [it is of] unleavened cakes of flour mixed with oil, or thin unleavened cakes anointed with oil.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `And if thine offering [is] a present [made] on the girdel, it is of flour, mixed with oil, unleavened;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> divide thou it into parts, and thou hast poured on it oil; it [is] a present.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> `And if thine offering [is] a present [made] on the frying-pan, of flour with oil it is made,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and thou hast brought in the present which is made of these to Jehovah, and [one] hath brought it near unto the priest, and he hath brought it nigh unto the altar,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the priest hath lifted up from the present its memorial, and hath made perfume on the altar, a fire-offering of sweet fragrance to Jehovah;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the remnant of the present [is] for Aaron and for his sons, most holy, of the fireofferings of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> No present which ye bring near to Jehovah is made fermented, for with any leaven or any honey ye perfume no fire-offering to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `An offering of first -[fruits] --ye bring them near to Jehovah, but on the altar they go not up, for sweet fragrance.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And every offering--thy present--with salt thou dost season, and thou dost not let the salt of the covenant of thy God cease from thy present; with all thine offerings thou dost bring near salt.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `And if thou bring near a present of first-ripe [fruits] to Jehovah, --of green ears, roasted with fire, beaten out [corn] of a fruitful field thou dost bring near the present of thy firstripe [fruits],</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and thou hast put on it oil, and laid on it frankincense, it [is] a present;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the priest hath made perfume with its memorial from its beaten out [corn], and from its oil, besides all its frankincense--a fire-offering to Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>