<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Command the sons of Israel, and they bring unto thee pure olive oil, beaten, for the lamp, to cause a light to go up continually;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> at the outside of the vail of the testimony in the tent of meeting doth Aaron arrange it from evening till morning before Jehovah continually--a statute age-during to your generations;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> by the pure candlestick he doth arrange the lights before Jehovah continually.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `And thou hast taken flour, and hast baked twelve cakes with it, two tenth deals are in the one cake,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and thou hast set them two ranks (six in the rank) on the pure table before Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and thou hast put on the rank pure frankincense, and it hath been to the bread for a memorial, a fire-offering to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `On each sabbath-day he arrangeth it before Jehovah continually, from the sons of Israel--a covenant age-during;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and it hath been to Aaron, and to his sons, and they have eaten it in the holy place, for it [is] most holy to him, from the fire-offerings of Jehovah--a statute age-during.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And a son of an Israelitish woman goeth out (and he [is] son of an Egyptian man), in the midst of the sons of Israel, and strive in the camp do the son of the Israelitish woman and a man of Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the son of the Israelitish woman execrateth the Name, and revileth; and they bring him in unto Moses; and his mother's name [is] Shelomith daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and he causeth him to rest in charge--to explain to them by the mouth of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `Bring out the reviler unto the outside of the camp; and all those hearing have laid their hands on his head, and all the company have stoned him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `And unto the sons of Israel thou dost speak, saying, When any man revileth his God--then he hath borne his sin;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and he who is execrating the name of Jehovah is certainly put to death; all the company do certainly cast stones at him; as a sojourner so a native, in his execrating the Name, is put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `And when a man smiteth any soul of man, he is certainly put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `And he who smiteth a beast repayeth it, body for body.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> `And when a man putteth a blemish in his fellow, as he hath done so it is done to him;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he putteth a blemish in a man so it is done in him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> `And he who smiteth a beast repayeth it, and he who smiteth [the life of] man is put to death;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> one judgment is to you; as a sojourner so is a native; for I [am] Jehovah your God.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Moses speaketh unto the sons of Israel, and they bring out the reviler unto the outside of the camp, and stone him with stones; and the sons of Israel have done as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>