<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, and unto Aaron, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Each by his standard, with ensigns of the house of their fathers, do the sons of Israel encamp; over-against round about the tent of meeting they encamp.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And those encamping eastward towards the sun-rising, [are of] the standard of the camp of Judah, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Judah [is] Nahshon, son of Amminadab;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] four and seventy thousand and six hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And those encamping by him [are of] the tribe of Issachar; and the prince of the sons of Issachar [is] Nethaneel son of Zuar;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and his host, and its numbered ones, [are] four and fifty thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The tribe of Zebulun; and the prince of the sons of Zebulun [is] Eliab son of Helon;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and his host, and its numbered ones, [are] seven and fifty thousand and four hundred;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> all those numbered of the camp of Judah [are] a hundred thousand, and eighty thousand, and six thousand, and four hundred, by their hosts; they journey first.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The standard of the camp of Reuben [is] southward, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Reuben [is] Elizur son of Shedeur;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and his host, and its numbered ones, [are] six and forty thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And those encamping by him [are of] the tribe of Simeon; and the prince of the sons of Simeon [is] Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] nine and fifty thousand and three hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the tribe of Gad; and the prince of the sons of Gad [is] Eliasaph son of Reuel;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] five and forty thousand and six hundred and fifty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All those numbered of the camp of Reuben [are] a hundred thousand, and one and fifty thousand, and four hundred and fifty, by their hosts; and they journey second.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the tent of meeting--the camp of the Levites--hath journeyed in the midst of the camps; as they encamp so they journey, each at his station by their standards.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The standard of the camp of Ephraim, by their hosts, [is] westward; and the prince of the sons of Ephraim [is] Elishama son of Ammihud;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] forty thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And by him [is] the tribe of Manasseh; and the prince of the sons of Manasseh [is] Gamaliel son of Pedahzur;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] two and thirty thousand, and two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the tribe of Benjamin; and the prince of the sons of Benjamin [is] Abidan son of Gideoni;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] five and thirty thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> All those numbered of the camp of Ephraim [are] a hundred thousand, and eight thousand, and a hundred, by their hosts; and they journey third.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The standard of the camp of Dan [is] northward, by their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Dan [is] Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] two and sixty thousand and seven hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And those encamping by him [are of] the tribe of Asher; and the prince of the sons of Asher [is] Pagiel son of Ocran;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] one and forty thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the tribe of Naphtali; and the prince of the sons of Naphtali [is] Ahira son of Enan;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and his host, and their numbered ones, [are] three and fifty thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> All those numbered of the camp of Dan [are] a hundred thousand, and seven and fifty thousand, and six hundred; at the rear they journey, by their standards.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These [are] those numbered of the sons of Israel by the house of their fathers; all those numbered of the camps by their hosts [are] six hundred thousand, and three thousand, and five hundred and fifty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the Levites have not numbered themselves in the midst of the sons of Israel, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the sons of Israel do according to all that Jehovah hath commanded Moses; so they have encamped by their standards, and so they have journeyed; each by his families, by the house of his fathers.</p>

</body>
</html>