<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And these [are] births of Aaron and Moses, in the day of Jehovah's speaking with Moses in mount Sinai.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And these [are] the names of the sons of Aaron: the first-born Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> these [are] the names of the sons of Aaron, the anointed priests, whose hand he hath consecrated for acting as priest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Nadab dieth--Abihu also--before Jehovah, in their bringing near strange fire before Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai, and sons they had not; and Eleazar--Ithamar also--acteth as priest in the presence of Aaron their father.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> `Bring near the tribe of Levi, and thou hast caused it to stand before Aaron the priest, and they have served him,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and kept his charge, and the charge of all the company before the tent of meeting, to do the service of the tabernacle;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and they have kept all the vessels of the tent of meeting, and the charge of the sons of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and thou hast given the Levites to Aaron and to his sons; they are surely given to him out of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `And Aaron and his sons thou dost appoint, and they have kept their priesthood, and the stranger who cometh near is put to death.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `And I, lo, I have taken the Levites from the midst of the sons of Israel instead of every first-born opening a womb among the sons of Israel, and the Levites have been Mine;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for Mine [is] every first-born, in the day of My smiting every first-born in the land of Egypt I have sanctified to Myself every first-born in Israel, from man unto beast; Mine they are; I [am] Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `Number the sons of Levi by the house of their fathers, by their families; every male from a son of a month and upward thou dost number them.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Moses numbereth them according to the command of Jehovah, as he hath been commanded.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And these are sons of Levi by their names: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And these [are] the names of the sons of Gershon by their families: Libni and Shimei.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the sons of Kohath, by their families, [are] Amram and Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the sons of Merari by their families [are] Mahli and Mushi; these are the families of the Levites, by the house of their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Of Gershon [is] the family of the Libnite, and the family of the Shimite; these are the families of the Gershonite.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Their numbered ones, in number, every male from a son of a month and upward, their numbered ones [are] seven thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The families of the Gershonite, behind the tabernacle, do encamp westward.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the prince of a father's house for the Gershonite [is] Eliasaph son of Lael.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the tent of meeting [is] the tabernacle, and the tent, its covering, and the vail at the opening of the tent of meeting,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and the hangings of the court, and the vail at the opening of the court, which [is] by the tabernacle and by the altar round about, and its cords, to all its service.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And of Kohath [is] the family of the Amramite, and the family of the Izharite, and the family of the Hebronite, and the family of the Uzzielite; these are families of the Kohathite.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In number, all the males, from a son of a month and upward, [are] eight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The families of the sons of Kohath encamp by the side of the tabernacle southward.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the prince of a father's house for the families of the Kohathite [is] Elizaphan son of Uzziel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And their charge [is] the ark, and the table, and the candlestick, and the altars, and the vessels of the sanctuary with which they serve, and the vail, and all its service.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And [to] the prince of the princes of the Levites, Eleazar son of Aaron the priest, [is] the oversight of the keepers of the charge of the sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Of Merari [is] the family of the Mahlite, and the family of the Mushite; these [are] the families of Merari.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And their numbered ones, in number, all the males from a son of a month and upward, [are] six thousand and two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the prince of a father's house for the families of Merari [is] Zuriel son of Abihail; by the side of the tabernacle they encamp northward.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the oversight--the charge of the sons of Merari--[is] the boards of the tabernacle, and its bars, and its pillars, and its sockets, and all its vessels, and all its service,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and the pillars of the court round about, and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And those encamping before the tabernacle eastward, before the tent of meeting, at the east, [are] Moses and Aaron, and his sons, keeping the charge of the sanctuary for the charge of the sons of Israel, and the stranger who cometh near is put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> All those numbered of the Levites whom Moses numbered--Aaron also--by the command of Jehovah, by their families, every male from a son of a month and upward, [are] two and twenty thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Jehovah saith unto Moses, `Number every first-born male of the sons of Israel from a son of a month and upward, and take up the number of their names;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> and thou hast taken the Levites for Me (I [am] Jehovah), instead of every first-born among the sons of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of every firstling among the cattle of the sons of Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Moses numbereth, as Jehovah hath commanded him, all the first-born among the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And all the first-born--male--by the number of names, from a son of a month and upward, of their numbered ones, are two and twenty thousand two hundred and seventy and three.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> `Take the Levites instead of every first-born among the sons of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle; and the Levites have been Mine; I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> `And [from] those ransomed of the two hundred and seventy and three (who are more than the Levites) of the first-born of the sons of Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> thou hast even taken five shekels a-piece by the poll--by the shekel of the sanctuary thou takest; twenty gerahs the shekel [is];</p>

<p><a id="c3_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> and thou hast given the money to Aaron, and to his sons, whereby those over and above are ransomed.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And Moses taketh the ransom money from those over and above those ransomed by the Levites;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> from the first-born of the sons of Israel he hath taken the money, a thousand and three hundred and sixty and five--by the shekel of the sanctuary;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> and Moses giveth the money of those ransomed to Aaron, and to his sons, according to the command of Jehovah, as Jehovah hath commanded Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>