<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Canaanite--king Arad--dwelling in the south, heareth that Israel hath come the way of the Atharim, and he fighteth against Israel, and taketh [some] of them captive.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Israel voweth a vow to Jehovah, and saith, `If Thou dost certainly give this people into my hand, then I have devoted their cities;'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and Jehovah hearkeneth to the voice of Israel, and giveth up the Canaanite, and he devoteth them and their cities, and calleth the name of the place Hormah.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they journey from mount Hor, the way of the Red Sea, to compass the land of Edom, and the soul of the people is short in the way,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the people speak against God, and against Moses, `Why hast thou brought us up out of Egypt to die in a wilderness? for there is no bread, and there is no water, and our soul hath been weary of this light bread.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah sendeth among the people the burning serpents, and they bite the people, and much people of Israel die;</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the people come in unto Moses and say, `We have sinned, for we have spoken against Jehovah, and against thee; pray unto Jehovah, and He doth turn aside from us the serpent;' and Moses prayeth in behalf of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah saith unto Moses, `Make for thee a burning [serpent], and set it on an ensign; and it hath been, every one who is bitten and hath seen it--he hath lived.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Moses maketh a serpent of brass, and setteth it on the ensign, and it hath been, if the serpent hath bitten any man, and he hath looked expectingly unto the serpent of brass--he hath lived.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the sons of Israel journey, and encamp in Oboth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they journey from Oboth, and encamp in Ije-Abarim, in the wilderness that [is] on the front of Moab, at the rising of the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> From thence they have journeyed, and encamp in the valley of Zared.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> From thence they have journeyed, and encamp beyond Arnon, which [is] in the wilderness which is coming out of the border of the Amorite, for Arnon [is] the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorite;</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> therefore it is said in a book, `The wars of Jehovah,' --`Waheb in Suphah, And the brooks of Arnon;</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the spring of the brooks, Which turned aside to the dwelling of Ar, And hath leaned to the border of Moab.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And from thence [they journeyed] to Beer; it [is] the well [concerning] which Jehovah said to Moses, `Gather the people, and I give to them--water.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then singeth Israel this song, concerning the well--they have answered to it:</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `A well--digged it have princes, Prepared it have nobles of the people, With the lawgiver, with their staves.' And from the wilderness [they journeyed] to Mattanah,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and from Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and from Bamoth in the valley which [is] in the field of Moab [to] the top of Pisgah, which hath looked on the front of the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Israel sendeth messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorite, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> `Let me pass through thy land, we do not turn aside into a field, or into a vineyard, we do not drink waters of a well; in the king's way we go, till that we pass over thy border.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Sihon hath not suffered Israel to pass through his border, and Sihon gathereth all his people, and cometh out to meet Israel into the wilderness, and cometh in to Jahaz, and fighteth against Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Israel smiteth him by the mouth of the sword, and possesseth his land from Arnon unto Jabbok--unto the sons of Ammon; for the border of the sons of Ammon [is] strong.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Israel taketh all these cities, and Israel dwelleth in all the cities of the Amorite, in Heshbon, and in all its villages;</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for Heshbon is a city of Sihon king of the Amorite, and he hath fought against the former king of Moab, and taketh all his land out of his hand, unto Arnon;</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> therefore those using similes say--`Enter ye Heshbon, Let the city of Sihon be built and ready,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For fire hath gone out from Heshbon, A flame from the city of Sihon, It hath consumed Ar of Moab, Owners of the high places of Arnon.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Woe to thee, O Moab, Thou hast perished, O people of Chemosh, He hath given his sons who escape--Also his daughters--Into captivity, to a king of the Amorite--Sihon!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And we shoot them, Perished hath Heshbon unto Dibon, And we make desolate unto Nophah, Which [is] unto Medeba.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Israel dwelleth in the land of the Amorite,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and Moses sendeth to spy out Jaazer, and they capture its villages, and dispossess the Amorite who [is] there,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and turn and go up the way of Bashan, and Og king of Bashan cometh out to meet them, he and all his people, to battle, [at] Edrei.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jehovah saith unto Moses, `Fear him not, for into thy hand I have given him, and all his people, and his land, and thou hast done to him as thou hast done to Sihon king of the Amorite, who is dwelling in Heshbon.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they smite him, and his sons, and all his people, until he hath not left to him a remnant, and they possess his land.</p>

</body>
</html>