<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Miriam speaketh--Aaron also--against Moses concerning the circumstance of the Cushite woman whom he had taken: for a Cushite woman he had taken;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and they say, `Only by Moses hath Jehovah spoken? also by us hath he not spoken?' and Jehovah heareth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the man Moses [is] very humble, more than any of the men who [are] on the face of the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jehovah saith suddenly unto Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, `Come out ye three unto the tent of meeting;' and they three come out.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah cometh down in the pillar of the cloud, and standeth at the opening of the tent, and calleth Aaron and Miriam, and they come out both of them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And He saith, `Hear, I pray you, My words: If your prophet is of Jehovah--in an appearance unto him I make Myself known; in a dream I speak with him;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> not so My servant Moses; in all My house he [is] stedfast;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> mouth unto mouth I speak with him, and [by] an appearance, and not in riddles; and the form of Jehovah he beholdeth attentively; and wherefore have ye not been afraid to speak against My servant--against Moses?'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the anger of Jehovah burneth against them, and He goeth on,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the cloud hath turned aside from off the tent, and lo, Miriam [is] leprous as snow; and Aaron turneth unto Miriam, and lo, leprous!</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Aaron saith unto Moses, `O, my lord, I pray thee, lay not upon us sin [in] which we have been foolish, and [in] which we have sinned;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> let her not, I pray thee, be as [one] dead, when in his coming out from the womb of his mother--the half of his flesh is consumed.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Moses crieth unto Jehovah, saying, `O God, I pray Thee, give, I pray Thee, healing to her.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jehovah saith unto Moses, `And her father had but spat in her face--is she not ashamed seven days? she is shut out seven days at the outside of the camp, and afterwards she is gathered.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Miriam is shut out at the outside of the camp seven days, and the people hath not journeyed till Miriam is gathered;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and afterwards have the people journeyed from Hazeroth, and they encamp in the wilderness of Paran.</p>

</body>
</html>