<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass, after the plague, that Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, and unto Eleazar son of Aaron the priest, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Take up the sum of all the company of the sons of Israel, from a son of twenty years and upward, by the house of their fathers, every one going out to the host in Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Moses speaketh--Eleazar the priest also--with them, in the plains of Moab, by Jordan, [near] Jericho, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `From a son of twenty years and upward,' as Jehovah hath commanded Moses and the sons of Israel who are coming out from the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Reuben, first-born of Israel--sons of Reuben: [of] Hanoch [is] the family of the Hanochite; of Pallu the family of the Palluite;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> of Hezron the family of the Hezronite; of Carmi the family of the Carmite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> These [are] families of the Reubenite, and their numbered ones are three and forty thousand and seven hundred and thirty.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the son of Pallu [is] Eliab;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the sons of Eliab [are] Nemuel and Dathan and Abiram; this [is that] Dathan and Abiram, called ones of the company, who have striven against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, in their striving against Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the earth openeth her mouth, and swalloweth them and Korah, in the death of the company, in the fire consuming the two hundred and fifty men, and they become a sign;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the sons of Korah died not.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Sons of Simeon by their families: of Nemuel [is] the family of the Nemuelite; of Jamin the family of the Jaminite; of Jachin the family of the Jachinite;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> of Zerah the family of the Zarhite; of Shaul the family of the Shaulite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These [are] families of the Simeonite, two and twenty thousand and two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Sons of Gad by their families: of Zephon [is] the family of the Zephonite; of Haggi the family of the Haggite; of Shuni the family of the Shunite;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> of Ozni the family of the Oznite; of Eri the family of the Erite:</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> of Arod the family of the Arodite; of Areli the family of the Arelite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> These [are] families of the sons of Gad, by their numbered ones, forty thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Sons of Judah [are] Er and Onan; and Er dieth--Onan also--in the land of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And sons of Judah, by their families, are: of Shelah the family of the Shelanite; of Pharez the family of the Pharzite; of Zerah the family of the Zarhite;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and sons of Pharez are: of Hezron the family of the Hezronite; of Hamul the family of the Hamulite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> These [are] families of Judah, by their numbered ones, six and seventy thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Sons of Issachar by their families; [of] Tola [is] the family of the Tolaite; of Pua the family of the Punite;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> of Jashub the family of the Jashubite; of Shimron the family of the Shimronite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These [are] families of Issachar, by their numbered ones, four and sixty thousand and three hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Sons of Zebulun by their families: of Sered [is] the family of the Sardite; of Elon the family of the Elonite; of Jahleel the family of the Jahleelite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These [are] families of the Zebulunite by their numbered ones, sixty thousand and five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Sons of Joseph by their families [are] Manasseh and Ephraim.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Sons of Manasseh: of Machir [is] the family of the Machirite; and Machir hath begotten Gilead; of Gilead [is] the family of the Gileadite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> These [are] sons of Gilead: [of] Jeezer [is] the family of the Jeezerite; of Helek the family of the Helekite;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and [of] Asriel the family of the Asrielite; and [of] Shechem the family of the Shechemite;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and [of] Shemida the family of the Shemidaite; and [of] Hepher the family of the Hepherite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Zelophehad son of Hepher had no sons but daughters, and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad [are] Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> These [are] families of Manasseh, and their numbered ones [are] two and fifty thousand and seven hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> These [are] sons of Ephraim by their families: of Shuthelah [is] the family of the Shuthelhite; of Becher the family of the Bachrite; of Tahan the family of the Tahanite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And these [are] sons of Shuthelah: of Eran the family of the Eranite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> These [are] families of the sons of Ephraim, by their numbered ones, two and thirty thousand and five hundred. These [are] sons of Joseph by their families.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Sons of Benjamin by their families: of Bela [is] the family of the Belaite; of Ashbel the family of the Ashbelite; of Ahiram the family of the Ahiramite;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> of Shupham the family of the Shuphamite; of Hupham the family of the Huphamite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And sons of Bela are Ard and Naaman: [of Ard is] the family of the Ardite: of Naaman the family of the Naamite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> These [are] sons of Benjamin by their families, and their numbered ones [are] five and forty thousand and six hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> These [are] sons of Dan by their families: of Shuham [is] the family of the Shuhamite; these [are] families of Dan by their families;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> all the families of the Shuhamite, by their numbered ones, [are] four and sixty thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Sons of Asher by their families: of Jimna [is] the family of the Jimnite; of Jesui the family of the Jesuite; of Beriah the family of the Beriite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Of sons of Beriah: of Heber [is] the family of the Heberite; of Malchiel the family of the Malchielite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And the name of the daughter of Asher [is] Sarah.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> These [are] families of the sons of Asher, by their numbered ones, three and fifty thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Sons of Naphtali by their families: of Jahzeel [is] the family of the Jahzeelite; of Guni the family of the Gunite;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> of Jezer the family of the Jezerite; of Shillem the family of the Shillemite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> These [are] families of Naphtali by their families, and their numbered ones [are] five and forty thousand and four hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> These [are] numbered ones of the sons of Israel, six hundred thousand, and a thousand, seven hundred and thirty.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> `To these is the land apportioned by inheritance, by the number of names;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> to the many thou dost increase their inheritance, and to the few thou dost diminish their inheritance; [to] each according to his numbered ones is given his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> `Only by lot is the land apportioned, by the names of the tribes of their fathers they inherit;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> according to the lot is their inheritance apportioned between many and few.'</p>

<p><a id="c26_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And these [are] numbered ones of the Levite by their families: of Gershon [is] the family of the Gershonite; of Kohath the family of the Kohathite; of Merari the family of the Merarite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> These [are] families of the Levite: the family of the Libnite, the family of the Hebronite, the family of the Mahlite, the family of the Mushite, the family of the Korathite. And Kohath hath begotten Amram,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> and the name of Amram's wife is Jochebed, daughter of Levi, whom [one] hath born to Levi in Egypt; and she beareth to Amram Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam their sister.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And born to Aaron Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> and Nadab dieth--Abihu also--in their bringing near strange fire before Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> And their numbered ones are three and twenty thousand, every male from a son of a month and upwards, for they have not numbered themselves in the midst of the sons of Israel; for an inheritance hath not been given to them in the midst of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> These [are] those numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who have numbered the sons of Israel in the plains of Moab, by Jordan, [near] Jericho;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> and among these there hath not been a man of those numbered by Moses, and Aaron the priest, who numbered the sons of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> for Jehovah said of them, `They do certainly die in the wilderness;' and there hath not been left of them a man save Caleb son of Jephunneh, and Joshua son of Nun.</p>

</body>
</html>