<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And this [is] the blessing [with] which Moses the man of God blessed the sons of Israel before his death,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he saith: --`Jehovah from Sinai hath come, And hath risen from Seir for them; He hath shone from mount Paran, And hath come [with] myriads of holy ones; At His right hand [are] springs for them.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also He [is] loving the peoples; All His holy ones [are] in thy hand, And they-- they sat down at thy foot, [Each] He lifteth up at thy words.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A law hath Moses commanded us, A possession of the assembly of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he is in Jeshurun king, In the heads of the people gathering together, The tribes of Israel!</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let Reuben live, and not die, And let his men be a number.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And this [is] for Judah; and he saith: --Hear, O Jehovah, the voice of Judah, And unto his people do Thou bring him in; His hand hath striven for him, And an help from his adversaries art Thou.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And of Levi he said: --Thy Thummim and thy Urim [are] for thy pious one, Whom Thou hast tried in Massah, Thou dost strive with Him at the waters of Meribah;</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who is saying of his father and his mother, I have not seen him; And his brethren he hath not discerned, And his sons he hath not known; For they have observed Thy saying, And Thy covenant they keep.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They teach Thy judgments to Jacob, And Thy law to Israel; They put perfume in Thy nose, And whole burnt-offering on Thine altar.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Bless, O Jehovah, his strength, And the work of his hands Thou acceptest, Smite the loins of his withstanders, And of those hating him--that they rise not!</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Of Benjamin he said: --The beloved of Jehovah doth tabernacle confidently by him, Covering him over all the day; Yea, between his shoulders He doth tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And of Joseph he said: --Blessed of Jehovah [is] his land, By precious things of the heavens, By dew, and by the deep crouching beneath,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And by precious things--fruits of the sun, And by precious things--cast forth by the moons,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And by chief things--of the ancient mountains, And by precious things--of the age-during heights,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And by precious things--of earth and its fulness, And the good pleasure Of Him who is dwelling in the bush, --Let it come for the head of Joseph, And for the crown of him Who is separate from his brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His honour [is] a firstling of his ox, And his horns [are] horns of a reem; By them peoples he doth push together To the ends of earth; And they [are] the myriads of Ephraim, And they [are] the thousands of Manasseh.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And of Zebulun he said: --Rejoice, O Zebulun, in thy going out, And, O Issachar, in thy tents;</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Peoples [to] the mountain they call, There they sacrifice righteous sacrifices; For the abundance of the seas they suck, And hidden things hidden in the sand.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And of Gad he said: --Blessed of the Enlarger [is] Gad, As a lioness he doth tabernacle, And hath torn the arm--also the crown!</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he provideth the first part for himself, For there the portion of the lawgiver is covered, And he cometh [with] the heads of the people; The righteousness of Jehovah he hath done, And His judgments with Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And of Dan he said: --Dan [is] a lion's whelp; he doth leap from Bashan.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And of Naphtali he said: --O Naphtali, satisfied with pleasure, And full of the blessing of Jehovah, West and south possess thou.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And of Asher he said: --Blessed with sons [is] Asher, Let him be accepted by his brethren, And dipping in oil his foot.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Iron and brass [are] thy shoes, And as thy days--thy strength.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There is none like the God of Jeshurun, Riding the heavens in thy help, And in His excellency the skies.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> A habitation [is] the eternal God, And beneath [are] arms age-during. And He casteth out from thy presence the enemy, and saith, `Destroy!'</p>

<p><a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Israel doth tabernacle [in] confidence alone; The eye of Jacob [is] unto a land of corn and wine; Also His heavens drop down dew.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> O thy happiness, O Israel! who is like thee? A people saved by Jehovah, The shield of thy help, And He who [is] the sword of thine excellency: And thine enemies are subdued for thee, And thou on their high places dost tread.'</p>

</body>
</html>