<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `And we turn, and go up the way to Bashan, and Og king of Bashan cometh out to meet us, he and all his people, to battle, [to] Edrei.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `And Jehovah saith unto me, Fear him not, for into thy hand I have given him, and all his people, and his land, and thou hast done to him as thou hast done to Sihon king of the Amorite who is dwelling in Heshbon.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> `And Jehovah our God giveth into our hands also Og king of Bashan, and all his people, and we smite him till there hath not been left to him a remnant;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and we capture all his cities at that time, there hath not been a city which we have not taken from them, sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All these [are] cities fenced with high walls, two-leaved doors and bar, apart from cities of villages very many;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and we devote them, as we have done to Sihon king of Heshbon, devoting every city, men, the women, and the infants;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and all the cattle, and the spoil of the cities, we have spoiled for ourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `And we take, at that time, the land out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorite, which is beyond the Jordan, from the brook Arnon unto mount Hermon;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (Sidonians call Hermon, Sirion; and the Amorites call it Senir,)</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> all the cities of the plain, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, unto Salchah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for only Og king of Bashan had been left of the remnant of the Rephaim; lo, his bedstead [is] a bedstead of iron; is it not in Rabbath of the sons of Ammon? nine cubits its length, and four cubits its breadth, by the cubit of a man.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `And this land we have possessed, at that time; from Aroer, which [is] by the brook Arnon, and the half of mount Gilead, and its cities, I have given to the Reubenite, and to the Gadite;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and the rest of Gilead and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, I have given to the half tribe of Manasseh; all the region of Argob, to all that Bashan, called the land of Rephaim.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `Jair son of Manasseh hath taken all the region of Argob, unto the border of Geshuri, and Maachathi, and calleth them by his own name, Bashan-Havoth-Jair, unto this day.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And to Machir I have given Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `And to the Reubenite and to the Gadite I have given from Gilead even unto the brook Arnon, the middle of the valley and the border, even unto Jabbok the brook, the border of the sons of Ammon,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the plain, and the Jordan, and the border, from Chinnereth even unto the sea of the plain, the salt sea, under the springs of Pisgah, at the [sun] -rising.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `And I command you, at that time, saying, Jehovah your God hath given to you this land to possess it; armed ye pass over before your brethren the sons of Israel, all the sons of might.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Only, your wives, and your infants, and your cattle--I have known that ye have much cattle--do dwell in your cities which I have given to you,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> till that Jehovah give rest to your brethren like yourselves, and they also have possessed the land which Jehovah your God is giving to them beyond the Jordan, then ye have turned back each to his possession, which I have given to you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> `And Jehoshua I have commanded at that time, saying, Thine eyes are seeing all that which Jehovah your God hath done to these two kings--so doth Jehovah to all the kingdoms whither thou are passing over;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> fear them not, for Jehovah your God, He is fighting for you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `And I entreat for grace unto Jehovah, at that time, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Lord Jehovah, Thou--Thou hast begun to shew Thy servant Thy greatness, and Thy strong hand; for who [is] a God in the heavens or in earth who doth according to Thy works, and according to Thy might?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let me pass over, I pray Thee, and see the good land which [is] beyond the Jordan, this good hill-country, and Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> `And Jehovah sheweth himself wroth with me, for your sake, and hath not hearkened unto me, and Jehovah saith unto me, Enough for thee; add not to speak unto Me any more about this thing:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> go up [to] the top of Pisgah, and lift up thine eyes westward, and northward, and southward, and eastward, and see with thine eyes--for thou dost not pass over this Jordan;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and charge Jehoshua, and strengthen him, and harden him, for he doth pass over before this people, and he doth cause them to inherit the land which thou seest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> `And we dwell in a valley over-against Beth-Peor.</p>

</body>
</html>