<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `At that time hath Jehovah said unto me, Grave for thee two tables of stone, like the first, and come up unto Me, into the mount, and thou hast made for thee an ark of wood,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and I write on the tables the words which were on the first tables, which thou hast broken, and thou hast placed them in the ark;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I make an ark of shittim wood, and grave two tables of stone like the first, and go up to the mount, and the two tables in my hand.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `And He writeth on the tables, according to the first writing, the Ten Matters, which Jehovah hath spoken unto you in the mount, out of the midst of the fire, in the day of the assembly, and Jehovah giveth them unto me,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and I turn and come down from the mount, and put the tables in the ark which I had made, and they are there, as Jehovah commanded me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> `And the sons of Israel have journeyed from Beeroth of the sons of Jaakan to Mosera, there Aaron died, and he is buried there, and Eleazar his son doth act as priest in his stead;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> thence they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of brooks of water.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `At that time hath Jehovah separated the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, to stand before Jehovah, to serve Him, and to bless in His name, unto this day,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> therefore there hath not been to Levi a portion and inheritance with his brethren; Jehovah Himself [is] his inheritance, as Jehovah thy God hath spoken to him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `And I--I have stood in the mount, as the former days, forty days and forty nights, and Jehovah hearkeneth unto me also at that time; Jehovah hath not willed to destroy thee.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `And Jehovah saith unto me, Rise, go to journey before the people, and they go in and possess the land which I have sworn to their fathers to give to them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `And now, Israel, what is Jehovah thy God asking from thee, except to fear Jehovah thy God, to walk in all His ways, and to love Him, and to serve Jehovah thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> to keep the commands of Jehovah, and His statutes which I am commanding thee to-day, for good to thee?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `Lo, to Jehovah thy God [are] the heavens and the heavens of the heavens, the earth and all that [is] in it;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> only in thy fathers hath Jehovah delighted--to love them, and He doth fix on their seed after them--on you, out of all the peoples as [at] this day;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and ye have circumcised the foreskin of your heart, and your neck ye do not harden any more;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for Jehovah your God--He [is] God of the gods, and Lord of the lords; God, the great, the mighty, and the fearful; who accepteth not persons, nor taketh a bribe;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He is doing the judgment of fatherless and widow, and loving the sojourner, to give to him bread and raiment.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> `And ye have loved the sojourner, for sojourners ye were in the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `Jehovah thy God thou dost fear, Him thou dost serve, and to Him thou dost cleave, and by His name thou dost swear.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He [is] thy praise, and He [is] thy God, who hath done with thee these great and fearful [things] which thine eyes have seen:</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> with seventy persons did thy fathers go down to Egypt, and now hath Jehovah thy God made thee as stars of the heavens for multitude.</p>

</body>
</html>