<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `Give ear, O heavens, and I speak; And thou dost hear, O earth, sayings of my mouth!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Drop as rain doth My doctrine; Flow as dew doth My sayings; As storms on the tender grass, And as showers on the herb,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the Name of Jehovah I proclaim, Ascribe ye greatness to our God!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Rock! --perfect [is] His work, For all His ways [are] just; God of stedfastness, and without iniquity: Righteous and upright [is] He.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> It hath done corruptly to Him; Their blemish is not His sons', A generation perverse and crooked!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> To Jehovah do ye act thus, O people foolish and not wise? Is not He thy father- -thy possessor? He made thee, and doth establish thee.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember days of old--Understand the years of many generations--Ask thy father, and he doth tell thee; Thine elders, and they say to thee:</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In the Most High causing nations to inherit, In His separating sons of Adam-- He setteth up the borders of the peoples By the number of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For Jehovah's portion [is] His people, Jacob [is] the line of His inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He findeth him in a land--a desert, And in a void--a howling wilderness, He turneth him round--He causeth him to understand--He keepeth him as the apple of His eye.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As an eagle waketh up its nest, Over its young ones fluttereth, Spreadeth its wings--taketh them, Beareth them on its pinions; --</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jehovah alone doth lead him, And there is no strange god with him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He maketh him ride on high places of earth, And he eateth increase of the fields, And He maketh him suck honey from a rock, And oil out of the flint of a rock;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Butter of the herd, and milk of the flock, With fat of lambs, and rams, sons of Bashan, And he-goats, with fat of kidneys of wheat; And of the blood of the grape thou dost drink wine!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jeshurun waxeth fat, and doth kick: Thou hast been fat--thou hast been thick, Thou hast been covered. And he leaveth God who made him, And dishonoureth the Rock of his salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They make Him zealous with strangers, With abominations they make Him angry.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They sacrifice to demons--no god! Gods they have not known--New ones-- from the vicinity they came; Not feared them have your fathers!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Rock that begat thee thou forgettest, And neglectest God who formeth thee.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Jehovah seeth and despiseth--For the provocation of His sons and His daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And He saith: I hide My face from them, I see what [is] their latter end; For a froward generation [are] they, Sons in whom is no stedfastness.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They have made Me zealous by `no-god,' They made Me angry by their vanities; And I make them zealous by `no-people,' By a foolish nation I make them angry.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For a fire hath been kindled in Mine anger, And it burneth unto Sheol--the lowest, And consumeth earth and its increase, And setteth on fire foundations of mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I gather upon them evils, Mine arrows I consume upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Exhausted by famine, And consumed by heat, and bitter destruction. And the teeth of beasts I send upon them, With poison of fearful things of the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Without bereave doth the sword, And at the inner-chambers--fear, Both youth and virgin, Suckling with man of grey hair.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I have said: I blow them away, I cause their remembrance to cease from man;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If not--the anger of an enemy I fear, Lest their adversaries know--Lest they say, Our hand is high, And Jehovah hath not wrought all this.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For a nation lost to counsels [are] they, And there is no understanding in them.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> If they were wise--They deal wisely [with] this; They attend to their latter end:</p>

<p><a id="c32_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> How doth one pursue a thousand, And two cause a myriad to flee! If not--that their rock hath sold them, And Jehovah hath shut them up?</p>

<p><a id="c32_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For not as our Rock [is] their rock, (And our enemies [are] judges!)</p>

<p><a id="c32_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For of the vine of Sodom their vine [is], And of the fields of Gomorrah; Their grapes [are] grapes of gall--They have bitter clusters;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The poison of dragons [is] their wine And the fierce venom of asps.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Is it not laid up with Me? Sealed among My treasures?</p>

<p><a id="c32_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Mine [are] vengeance and recompense, At the due time--doth their foot slide; For near is a day of their calamity, And haste do things prepared for them.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For Jehovah doth judge His people, And for His servants doth repent Himself. For He seeth--the going away of power, And none is restrained and left.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And He hath said, Where [are] their gods--The rock in which they trusted;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Which the fat of their sacrifices do eat, They drink the wine of their libation! Let them arise and help you, Let it be for you a hiding-place!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> See ye, now, that I--I [am] He, And there is no god with Me: I put to death, and I keep alive; I have smitten, and I heal; And there is not from My hand a deliverer,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For I lift up unto the heavens My hand, And have said, I live--to the age!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> If I have sharpened the brightness of My sword, And My hand doth lay hold on judgment, I turn back vengeance to Mine adversaries, And to those hating Me--I repay!</p>

<p><a id="c32_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> I make drunk Mine arrows with blood, And My sword devoureth flesh, From the blood of the pierced and captive, From the head of the freemen of the enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Sing ye nations--[with] his people, For the blood of His servants He avengeth, And vengeance He turneth back on His adversaries, And hath pardoned His land--His people.'</p>

<p><a id="c32_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Moses cometh and speaketh all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Hoshea son of Nun;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and Moses finisheth to speak all these words unto all Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> and saith unto them, `Set your heart to all the words which I am testifying against you to-day, that ye command your sons to observe to do all the words of this law,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> for it [is] not a vain thing for you, for it [is] your life, and by this thing ye prolong days on the ground whither ye are passing over the Jordan to possess it.'</p>

<p><a id="c32_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And Jehovah speaketh unto Moses, in this self-same day, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> `Go up unto this mount Abarim, mount Nebo, which [is] in the land of Moab, which [is] on the front of Jericho, and see the land of Canaan which I am giving to the sons of Israel for a possession;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> and die in the mount whither thou art going up, and be gathered unto thy people, as Aaron thy brother hath died in the mount Hor, and is gathered unto his people:</p>

<p><a id="c32_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> `Because ye trespassed against me in the midst of the sons of Israel at the waters of Meribath-Kadesh, the wilderness of Zin--because ye sanctified Me not in the midst of the sons of Israel;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> but over-against thou seest the land, and thither thou dost not go in, unto the land which I am giving to the sons of Israel.'</p>

</body>
</html>