<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the lot for the tribe of the sons of Judah, for their families, is unto the border of Edom; the wilderness of Zin southward, at the extremity of the south;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and to them the south border is at the extremity of the salt sea, from the bay which is looking southward;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and it hath gone out unto the south to Maaleh-Akrabbim, and passed over to Zin, and gone up on the south to Kadesh-Barnea, and passed over [to] Hezron, and gone up to Adar, and turned round to Karkaa,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and passed over [to] Azmon, and gone out [at] the brook of Egypt, and the outgoings of the border have been at the sea; this is to you the south border.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the east border [is] the salt sea, unto the extremity of the Jordan, and the border at the north quarter [is] from the bay of the sea, at the extremity of the Jordan;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the border hath gone up [to] Beth-Hoglah, and passed over on the north of Beth- Arabah, and the border hath gone up [to] the stone of Bohan son of Reuben:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the border hath gone up towards Debir from the valley of Achor, and northward looking unto Gilgal, which [is] over-against the ascent of Adummim, which [is] on the south of the brook, and the border hath passed over unto the waters of En-Shemesh, and its outgoings have been unto En-Rogel;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and the border hath gone up the valley of the son of Hinnom, unto the side of the Jebusite on the south (it [is] Jerusalem), and the border hath gone up unto the top of the hill-country which [is] on the front of the valley of Hinnom westward, which [is] in the extremity of the valley of the Rephaim northward;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the border hath been marked out, from the top of the hill-country unto the fountain of the waters of Nephtoah, and hath gone out unto the cities of mount Ephron, and the border hath been marked out [to] Baalah, (it [is] Kirjath-Jearim);</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the border hath gone round from Baalah westward, unto mount Seir, and passed over unto the side of mount Jearim (it [is] Chesalon), on the north, and gone down [to] Beth- Shemesh, and passed over to Timnah;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the border hath gone out unto the side of Ekron northward, and the border hath been marked out [to] Shicron, and hath passed over to mount Baalah, and gone out [to] Jabneel; and the outgoings of the border have been at the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the west border [is] to the great sea, and [its] border; this [is] the border of the sons of Judah round about for their families.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And to Caleb son of Jephunneh hath he given a portion in the midst of the sons of Judah, according to the command of Jehovah to Joshua, [even] the city of Arba, father of Anak--it [is] Hebron.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Caleb is dispossessing thence the three sons of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, children of Anak,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and he goeth up thence unto the inhabitants of Debir; and the name of Debir formerly is Kirjath-Sepher.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Caleb saith, `He who smiteth Kirjath-Sephar, and hath captured it--I have given to him Achsah my daughter for a wife.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Othniel son of Kenaz, brother of Caleb, doth capture it, and he giveth to him Achsah his daughter for a wife.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it cometh to pass, in her coming in, that she persuadeth him to ask from her father a field, and she lighteth from off the ass, and Caleb saith to her, `What--to thee?'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And she saith, `Give to me a blessing; when the land of the south thou hast given me, then thou hast given to me springs of waters;' and he giveth to her the upper springs and the lower springs.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This [is] the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Judah, for their families.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the cities at the extremity of the tribe of the sons of Judah are unto the border of Edom in the south, Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, Hezron, (it [is] Hazor,)</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Amam, and Shema, and Moladah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and Hazar-Gaddah, and Heshmon, and Beth-Palet,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Hazar-Shual, and Beer-Sheba, and Bizjothjah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Baalah, and Iim, and Azem,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon; all the cities [are] twenty and nine, and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> In the low country: Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and Zanoah, and En-Gannim, Tappuah, and Enam,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and Sharaim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdal-Gad,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> and Gederoth, Beth-Dagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> and Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Ekron and its towns and its villages,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> from Ekron and westward, all that [are] by the side of Ashdod, and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Ashdod, its towns and its villages, Gaza, its towns and its villages, unto the brook of Egypt, and the great sea, and [its] border.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And in the hill-country: Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> and Dannah, and Kirjath-Sannah (it [is] Debir)</p>

<p><a id="c15_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> and Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> and Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and Janum, and Beth-Tappuah, and Aphekah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> and Humtah, and Kirjath-Arba (it [is] Hebron), and Zior; nine cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Maon, Carmel, and Ziph, and Juttah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> and Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Halhul, Beth-Zur, and Gedor,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> and Maarath, and Beth-Anoth, and Eltekon; six cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> Kirjath-Baal (it [is] Kirjath-Jearim), and Rabbah; two cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> In the wilderness: Beth-Arabah, Middin, and Secacah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> and Nibshan, and the city of Salt, and En-Gedi; six cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> As to the Jebusites, inhabitants of Jerusalem, the sons of Judah have not been able to dispossess them, and the Jebusite dwelleth with the sons of Judah in Jerusalem unto this day.</p>

</body>
</html>