<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Joshua gathereth all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, and calleth for the elders of Israel, and for its heads, and for its judges, and for its authorities, and they station themselves before God.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Joshua saith unto all the people, `Thus said Jehovah, God of Israel, Beyond the River have your fathers dwelt of old--Terah father of Abraham and father of Nachor--and they serve other gods;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I take your father Abraham from beyond the River, and cause him to go through all the land of Canaan, and multiply his seed, and give to him Isaac.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I give to Isaac, Jacob and Esau; and I give to Esau mount Seir, to possess it; and Jacob and his sons have gone down to Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I send Moses and Aaron, and plague Egypt, as I have done in its midst, and afterwards I have brought you out.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I bring out your fathers from Egypt, and ye go into the sea, and the Egyptians pursue after your fathers, with chariot and with horsemen, to the Red Sea;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and they cry unto Jehovah, and He setteth thick darkness between you and the Egyptians, and bringeth on them the sea, and covereth them, and your eyes see that which I have done in Egypt; and ye dwell in a wilderness many days.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `And I bring you in unto the land of the Amorite who is dwelling beyond the Jordan, and they fight with you, and I give them into your hand, and ye possess their land, and I destroy them out of your presence.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `And Balak son of Zippor, king of Moab, riseth and fighteth against Israel, and sendeth and calleth for Balaam son of Beor, to revile you,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and I have not been willing to hearken to Balaam, and he doth greatly bless you, and I deliver you out of his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `And ye pass over the Jordan, and come in unto Jericho, and fight against you do the possessors of Jericho--the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Girgashite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite--and I give theminto your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I send before you the hornet, and it casteth them out from your presence--two kings of the Amorite--not by thy sword, nor by thy bow.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> `And I give to you a land for which thou hast not laboured, and cities which ye have not built, and ye dwell in them; of vineyards and olive-yards which ye have not planted ye are eating.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `And now, fear ye Jehovah, and serve Him, in perfection and in truth, and turn aside the gods which your fathers served beyond the River, and in Egypt, and serve ye Jehovah;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and if wrong in your eyes to serve Jehovah--choose for you to-day whom ye do serve; --whether the gods whom your fathers served, which [are] beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorite in whose land ye are dwelling; and I and my house--we serve Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the people answer and say, `Far be it from us to forsake Jehovah, to serve other gods;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for Jehovah our God [is] He who is bringing us and our fathers up out of the land of Egypt, out of a house of servants, and who hath done before our eyes these great signs, and doth keep us in all the way in which we have gone, and among allthe peoples through whose midst we passed;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and Jehovah casteth out the whole of the peoples, even the Amorite inhabiting the land, from our presence; we also do serve Jehovah, for He [is] our God.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Joshua saith unto the people, `Ye are not able to serve Jehovah, for a God most holy He [is]; a zealous God He [is]; He doth not bear with your transgression and with your sins.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When ye forsake Jehovah, and have served gods of a stranger, then He hath turned back and done evil to you, and consumed you, after that He hath done good to you.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the people saith unto Joshua, `No, but Jehovah we do serve.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Joshua saith unto the people, `Witnesses ye are against yourselves, that ye have chosen for you Jehovah to serve Him (and they say, `Witnesses!')</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and, now, turn aside the gods of the stranger which [are] in your midst, and incline your heart unto Jehovah, God of Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the people say unto Joshua, `Jehovah our God we serve, and to His voice we hearken.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Joshua maketh a covenant with the people on that day, and layeth on it a statute and an ordinance, in Shechem.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Joshua writeth these words in the Book of the Law of God, and taketh a great stone, and raiseth it up there under the oak which [is] in the sanctuary of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Joshua saith unto all the people, `Lo, this stone is against us for a witness, for it hath heard all the sayings of Jehovah which He hath spoken with us, and it hath been against you for a witness, lest ye lie against your God.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Joshua sendeth the people away, each to his inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it cometh to pass, after these things, that Joshua son of Nun, servant of Jehovah, dieth, a son of a hundred and ten years,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and they bury him in the border of his inheritance, in Timnath-Serah, which [is] in the hill-country of Ephraim, on the north of the hill of Gaash.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Israel serveth Jehovah all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who prolonged days after Joshua, and who knew all the work of Jehovah which He did to Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the bones of Joseph, which the sons of Israel brought up out of Egypt, they buried in Shechem, in the portion of the field which Jacob bought from the sons of Hamor father of Shechem, with a hundred kesitah; and they are to the sons of Joseph for an inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Eleazar son of Aaron died, and they bury him in the hill of Phinehas his son, which was given to him in the hill-country of Ephraim.</p>

</body>
</html>