<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And all the sons of Israel go out, and the company is assembled as one man, from Dan even unto Beer-Sheba, and the land of Gilead, unto Jehovah, at Mizpeh.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the chiefs of all the people, of all the tribes of Israel, station themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen drawing sword.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the sons of Benjamin hear that the sons of Israel have gone up to Mizpeh. And the sons of Israel say, `Speak ye, how hath this evil been?'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the man, the Levite, husband of the woman who hath been murdered, answereth and saith, `Into Gibeah (which [is] to Benjamin) I have come, I and my concubine, to lodge;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and rise against me do the masters of Gibeah--and they go round the house against me by night--me they thought to slay, and my concubine they have humbled, and she dieth;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and I lay hold on my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and send her into all the country of the inheritance of Israel; for they have done wickedness and folly in Israel;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> lo, ye [are] all sons of Israel; give for you a word and counsel here.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And all the people rise as one man, saying, `None of us doth go to his tent, and none of us doth turn aside to his house;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and now, this [is] the thing which we do to Gibeah--against it by lot!</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and we have taken ten men of a hundred, of all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand of a myriad, to receive provision for the people, to do, at their coming to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly whichit hath done in Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And every man of Israel is gathered unto the city, as one man--companions.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the tribes of Israel send men among all the tribes of Benjamin, saying, `What [is] this evil which hath been among you?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And now, give up the men--sons of worthlessness--which [are] in Gibeah, and we put them to death, and we put away evil from Israel.' And [the sons of] Benjamin have not been willing to hearken to the voice of their brethren, the sons of Israel;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the sons of Benjamin are gathered out of the cities to Gibeah, to go out to battle with the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the sons of Benjamin number themselves on that day; out of the cities [are] twenty and six thousand men drawing sword, apart from the inhabitants of Gibeah, [who] numbered themselves, seven hundred chosen men;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> among all this people [are] seven hundred chosen men, bound of their right hand, each of these slinging with a stone at the hair, and he doth not err.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the men of Israel numbered themselves, apart from Benjamin, four hundred thousand men, drawing sword, each of these a man of war.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they rise and go up to Beth-El, and ask of God, and the sons of Israel say, `Who doth go up for us at the commencement to battle with the sons of Benjamin?' and Jehovah saith, `Judah--at the commencement.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the sons of Israel rise in the morning, and encamp against Gibeah,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and the men of Israel go out to battle with Benjamin, and the men of Israel set themselves in array with them, [for] battle against Gibeah,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and the sons of Benjamin come out from Gibeah, and destroy in Israel on that day two and twenty thousand men--to the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the people, the men of Israel, strengthen themselves, and add to set the battle in array in the place where they arranged themselves on the first day.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the sons of Israel go up and weep before Jehovah till the evening, and ask of Jehovah, saying, `Do I add to draw nigh to battle with the sons of Benjamin, my brother?' And Jehovah saith, `Go up against him.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the sons of Israel draw near unto the sons of Benjamin on the second day,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and Benjamin cometh out to meet them from Gibeah on the second day, and destroy among the sons of Israel again eighteen thousand men--to the earth; all these are drawing sword.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And all the sons of Israel go up, even all the people, and come in to Beth-El, and weep, and sit there before Jehovah, and fast on that day till the evening, and cause to ascend burntofferings and peace-offerings before Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the sons of Israel ask of Jehovah, --and there [is] the ark of the covenant of God in those days,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Phinehas son of Eleazar, son of Aaron, is standing before it in those days-- saying, `Do I add again to go out to battle with the sons of Benjamin, my brother, or do I cease?' And Jehovah saith, `Go up, for to-morrow I give him into thy hand.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Israel setteth liers in wait against Gibeah, round about,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and the sons of Israel go up against the sons of Benjamin, on the third day, and arrange themselves against Gibeah, as time by time.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the sons of Benjamin come out to meet the people; they have been drawn away out of the city, and begin to smite [some] of the people--wounded as time by time, in the highways (of which one is going up to Beth-El, and the other to Gibeah in the field), [are] about thirty men of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the sons of Benjamin say, `They are smitten before us as at the beginning;' but the sons of Israel said, `Let us flee, and draw them away out of the city, unto the highways.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And all the men of Israel have risen from their place, and arrange themselves at Baal- Tamar, and the ambush of Israel is coming forth out of its place, out of the meadow of Gibeah.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And they come in over against Gibeah--ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel-- and the battle [is] grievous, and they have not known that the evil is striking against them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Jehovah smiteth Benjamin before Israel, and the sons of Israel destroy in Benjamin, on that day, twenty and five thousand, and a hundred men; all these [are] drawing sword.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the sons of Benjamin see that they have been smitten--and the men of Israel give place to Benjamin, for they have trusted unto the ambush which they had set against Gibeah,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and the ambush have hasted, and push against Gibeah, and the ambush draweth itself out, and smiteth the whole of the city by the mouth of the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And there was the appointed sign to the men of Israel with the ambush--their causing to go up a great volume of smoke from the city.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the men of Israel turn in battle, and Benjamin hath begun to smite the wounded among the men of Israel, about thirty men, for they said, `Surely they are utterly smitten before us, as [at] the first battle;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and the volume hath begun to go up from the city--a pillar of smoke--and Benjamin turneth behind, and lo, gone up hath the perfection of the city toward the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And the men of Israel have turned, and the men of Benjamin are troubled, for they have seen that the evil hath stricken against them--</p>

<p><a id="c20_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and they turn before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness, and the battle hath followed them; and those who [are] from the city are destroying them in their midst;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> they have compassed the Benjamites--they have pursued them--with ease they have trodden them down till over-against Gibeah, at the sun-rising.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And there fall of Benjamin eighteen thousand men--the whole of these [are] men of valour;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and they turn and flee toward the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon; and they glean of them in the highways five thousand men, and follow after them unto Gidom, and smite of them two thousand men.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And all those falling of Benjamin are twenty and five thousand men drawing sword, on that day--the whole of these [are] men of valour;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and there turn and flee into the wilderness, unto the rock of Rimmon six hundred men, and they dwell in the rock Rimmon four months.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And the men of Israel have turned back unto the sons of Benjamin, and smite them by the mouth of the sword out of the city, --men unto cattle, unto all that is found; also all the cities which are found they have sent into fire.</p>

</body>
</html>