<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the men of Ephraim are called together, and pass over northward, and say to Jephthah, `Wherefore has thou passed over to fight against the Bene-Ammon, and on us hast not called to go with thee? thy house we burn over thee with fire.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jephthah saith unto them, `A man of great strife I have been (I and my people) with the Bene-Ammon, and I call you, and ye have not saved me out of their hand,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I see that thou art not a saviour, and I put my life in my hand, and pass over unto the Bene-Ammon, and Jehovah giveth them into my hand--and why have ye come up unto me this day to fight against me?'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead, and fighteth with Ephraim, and the men of Gilead smite Ephraim, because they said, `Fugitives of Ephraim [are] ye Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim--in the midst of Manasseh.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Gilead captureth the passages of the Jordan to Ephraim, and it hath been, when [any of] the fugitives of Ephraim say, `Let me pass over,' and the men of Gilead say to him, `An Ephramite thou?' and he saith, `No;'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that they say to him, `Say, I pray thee, Shibboleth;' and he saith, `Sibboleth,' and is not prepared to speak right--and they seize him, and slaughter him at the passages of the Jordan, and there fall at that time, of Ephraim, forty and two chiefs.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jephthah judged Israel six years, and Jephthah the Gileadite dieth, and is buried in [one of] the cities of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And after him Ibzan of Beth-Lehem judgeth Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and he hath thirty sons and thirty daughters, he hath sent without and thirty daughters hath brought in to his sons from without; and he judgeth Israel seven years.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Ibzan dieth, and is buried in Beth-Lehem.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And after him Elon the Zebulunite judgeth Israel, and he judgeth Israel ten years,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Elon the Zebulunite dieth, and is buried in Aijalon, in the land of Zebulun.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And after him, Abdon son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, judgeth Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and he hath forty sons, and thirty grandsons, riding on seventy ass-colts, and he judgeth Israel eight years.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Abdon son of Hillel, the Pirathonite, dieth, and is buried in Pirathon, in the land of Ephraim, in the hill-country of the Amalekite.</p>

</body>
</html>