<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ruth 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ruth 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Naomi her mother-in-law saith to her, `My daughter, do not I seek for thee rest, that it may be well with thee?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and now, is not Boaz of our acquaintance, with whose young women thou hast been? lo, he is winnowing the threshing-floor of barley to-night,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and thou hast bathed, and anointed thyself, and put thy garments upon thee, and gone down to the threshing-floor; let not thyself be known to the man till he complete to eat and to drink;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and it cometh to pass when he lieth down, that thou hast known the place where he lieth down, and hast gone in, and uncovered his feet, and lain down, --and he doth declare to thee that which thou dost do.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And she saith unto her, `All that thou sayest--I do.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she goeth down [to] the threshing-floor, and doth according to all that her motherin- law commanded her</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Boaz eateth and drinketh, and his heart is glad; and he goeth in to lie down at the end of the heap; and she cometh in gently, and uncovereth his feet, and lieth down.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it cometh to pass, at the middle of the night, that the man trembleth, and turneth himself, and lo, a woman is lying at his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he saith, `Who [art] thou?' and she saith, `I [am] Ruth thy handmaid, and thou hast spread thy skirt over thy handmaid, for thou [art] a redeemer.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he saith, `Blessed [art] thou of Jehovah, my daughter; thou hast dealt more kindly at the latter end than at the beginning--not to go after the young men, either poor or rich.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now, my daughter, fear not, all that thou sayest I do to thee, for all the gate of my people doth know that thou [art] a virtuous woman.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And now, surely, true, that I [am] a redeemer, but also there is a redeemer nearer than I.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Lodge to night, and it hath been in the morning, if he doth redeem thee, well: he redeemeth; and if he delight not to redeem thee, then I have redeemed thee--I; Jehovah liveth! lie down till the morning.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And she lieth down at his feet till the morning, and riseth before one doth discern another; and he saith, `Let it not be known that the woman hath come into the floor.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he saith, `Give the covering which [is] on thee, and keep hold on it;' and she keepeth hold on it, and he measureth six [measures] of barley, and layeth [it] on her; and he goeth into the city.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And she cometh in unto her mother-in-law, and she saith, `Who [art] thou, my daughter?' and she declareth to her all that the man hath done to her.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And she saith, `These six [measures] of barley he hath given to me, for he said, Thou dost not go in empty unto thy mother-in-law.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And she saith, `Sit still, my daughter, till thou dost know how the matter falleth, for the man doth not rest except he hath completed the matter to-day.'</p>

</body>
</html>