<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ruth 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ruth 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass, in the days of the judging of the judges, that there is a famine in the land, and there goeth a man from Beth-Lehem-Judah to sojourn in the fields of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the name of the man [is] Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites from Beth-Lehem-Judah; and they come into the fields of Moab, and are there.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Elimelech husband of Naomi dieth, and she is left, she and her two sons;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and they take to them wives, Moabitesses: the name of the one [is] Orpah, and the name of the second Ruth; and they dwell there about ten years.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they die also, both of them--Mahlon and Chilion--and the woman is left of her two children and of her husband.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she riseth, she and her daughters-in-law, and turneth back from the fields of Moab, for she hath heard in the fields of Moab that God hath looked after His people, --to give to them bread.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she goeth out from the place where she hath been, and her two daughters-in-law with her, and they go in the way to turn back unto the land of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Naomi saith to her two daughters-in-law, `Go, turn back, each to the house of her mother; Jehovah doth with you kindness as ye have done with the dead, and with me;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jehovah doth grant to you, and find ye rest each in the house of her husband;' and she kisseth them, and they lift up their voice and weep.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they say to her, `Surely with thee we go back to thy people.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Naomi saith, `Turn back, my daughters; why do ye go with me? are there yet to me sons in my bowels that they have been to you for husbands?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Turn back, my daughters, go, for I am too aged to be to a husband; though I had said, There is for me hope, also, I have been to-night to a husband, and also I have borne sons:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for them do ye wait till that they grow up? for them do ye shut yourselves up, not to be to a husband? nay, my daughters, for more bitter to me than to you, for the hand of Jehovah hath gone out against me.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they lift up their voice, and weep again, and Orpah kisseth her mother-in-law, and</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And she saith, `Lo, thy sister-in-law hath turned back unto her people, and unto her god, turn thou back after thy sister-in-law.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Ruth saith, `Urge me not to leave thee--to turn back from after thee; for whither thou goest I go, and where thou lodgest I lodge; thy people [is] my people, and thy God my God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Where thou diest I die, and there I am buried; thus doth Jehovah to me, and thus doth He add--for death itself doth part between me and thee.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And she seeth that she is strengthening herself to go with her, and she ceaseth to speak unto her;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and they go both of them till their coming in to Beth-Lehem; and it cometh to pass at their coming in to Beth-Lehem, that all the city is moved at them, and they say, `Is this Naomi?'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And she saith unto them, `Call me not Naomi; call me Mara, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly to me,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I went out full, and empty hath Jehovah brought me back, why do ye call me Naomi, and Jehovah hath testified against me, and the Almighty hath done evil to me?'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Naomi turneth back, and Ruth the Moabitess her daughter-in-law with her, who hath turned back from the fields of Moab, and they have come in to Beth-Lehem at the commencement of barley-harvest.</p>

</body>
</html>