<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Samuel dieth, and all Israel are gathered, and mourn for him, and bury him in his house, in Ramah; and David riseth and goeth down unto the wilderness of Paran.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And [there is] a man in Maon, and his work [is] in Carmel; and the man [is] very great, and he hath three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats; and he is shearing his flock in Carmel.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the name of the man [is] Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail, and the woman [is] of good understanding, and of fair form, and the man [is] hard and evil [in] doings; and he [is] a Calebite.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And David heareth in the wilderness that Nabal is shearing his flock,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and David sendeth ten young men, and David saith to the young men, `Go ye up to Carmel, and ye have come in unto Nabal, and asked of him in my name of welfare,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and said thus: To life! and thou, peace; and thy house, peace; and all that thou hast-- peace!</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and, now, I have heard that thou hast shearers; now, the shepherds whom thou hast have been with us, we have not put them to shame, nor hath anything been looked after by them, all the days of their being in Carmel.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `Ask thy young men, and they declare to thee, and the young men find grace in thine eyes, for on a good day we have come; give, I pray thee, that which thy hand findeth, to thy servants, and to thy son, to David.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the young men of David come in, and speak unto Nabal according to all these words, in the name of David--and rest.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Nabal answereth the servants of David and saith, `Who [is] David, and who the son of Jesse? to-day have servants been multiplied who are breaking away each from his master;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and I have taken my bread, and my water, and my flesh, which I slaughtered for my shearers, and have given [it] to men whom I have not known whence they [are]!'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the young men of David turn on their way, and turn back, and come in, and declare to him according to all these words.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And David saith to his men, `Gird ye on each his sword;' and they gird on each his sword, and David also girdeth on his sword, and there go up after David about four hundred men, and two hundred have remained by the vessels.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And to Abigail wife of Nabal hath one young man of the youths declared, saying, `Lo, David hath sent messengers out of the wilderness to bless our lord, and he flieth upon them;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and the men [are] very good to us, and have not put us to shame, and we have not looked after anything all the days we have gone up and down with them, in our being in the field;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> a wall they have been unto us both by night and by day, all the days of our being with them, feeding the flock.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `And, now, know and consider what thou dost; for evil hath been determined against our lord, and against all his house, and he [is] too much a son of worthlessness to be spoken to.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Abigail hasteth, and taketh two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep, prepared, and five measures of roasted corn, and a hundred bunches of raisins, and two hundred bunches of figs, and setteth [them] on the asses.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And she saith to her young men, `Pass over before me; lo, after you I am coming;' and to her husband Nabal she hath not declared [it];</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and it hath come to pass, she is riding on the ass and is coming down in the secret part of the hill-country, and lo, David and his men are coming down to meet her, and she meeteth them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And David said, `Only, in vain I have kept all that this [one] hath in the wilderness, and nothing hath been looked after of all that he hath, and he turneth back to me evil for good;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> thus doth God do to the enemies of David, and thus He doth add, if I leave of all that he hath till the light of the morning--of those sitting on the wall.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Abigail seeth David, and hasteth and cometh down from off the ass, and falleth before David on her face, and boweth herself to the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and falleth at his feet and saith, `On me, my lord, the iniquity; and let, I pray thee, thy handmaid speak in thine ear, and hear the words of thy handmaid.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> `Let not, I pray thee, my lord set his heart to this man of worthlessness, on Nabal, for as his name [is] so [is] he; Nabal [is] his name, and folly [is] with him; and I, thine handmaid, did not see the young men of my lord whom thou didstsend;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and now, my lord, Jehovah liveth, and thy soul liveth, in that Jehovah hath withheld thee from coming in with blood, and to save thy hand to thee--now let thine enemies be as Nabal, even those seeking evil unto my lord.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> `And, now, this blessing which thy maid-servant hath brought to my lord--it hath been given to the young men who are going up and down at the feet of my lord.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> `Bear, I pray thee, with the transgression of thy handmaid, for Jehovah doth certainly make to my lord a stedfast house; for the battles of Jehovah hath my lord fought, and evil is not found in thee [all] thy days.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And man riseth to pursue thee and to seek thy soul, and the soul of my lord hath been bound in the bundle of life with Jehovah thy God; as to the soul of thine enemies, He doth sling them out in the midst of the hollow of the sling.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> `And it hath been, when Jehovah doth to my lord according to all the good which He hath spoken concerning thee, and appointed thee for leader over Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> that this is not to thee for a stumbling-block, and for an offence of heart to my lord--either to shed blood for nought, or my lord's restraining himself; and Jehovah hath done good to my lord, and thou hast remembered thy handmaid.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And David saith to Abigail, `Blessed [is] Jehovah, God of Israel, who hath sent thee this day to meet me,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and blessed [is] thy discretion, and blessed [art] thou in that thou hast restrained me this day from coming in with blood, and to restrain my hand to myself.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And yet, Jehovah liveth, God of Israel, who hath kept me back from doing evil with thee, for unless thou hadst hasted, and dost come to meet me, surely there had not been left to Nabal till the light of the morning, of those sitting on thewall.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And David receiveth from her hand that which she hath brought to him, and to her he hath said, `Go up in peace to thy house; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and accept thy face.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Abigail cometh in unto Nabal, and lo, he hath a banquet in his house, like a banquet of the king, and the heart of Nabal [is] glad within him, and he [is] drunk unto excess, and she hath not declared to him anything, less or more, till the light of the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And it cometh to pass in the morning, when the wine is gone out from Nabal, that his wife declareth to him these things, and his heart dieth within him, and he hath been as a stone.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And it cometh to pass, [in] about ten days, that Jehovah smiteth Nabal, and he dieth,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and David heareth that Nabal [is] dead, and saith, `Blessed [is] Jehovah who hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and His servant hath kept back from evil, and the wickedness of Nabal hath Jehovah turned back on his own head;' and David sendeth and speaketh with Abigail, to take her to him for a wife.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the servants of David come in unto Abigail at Carmel, and speak unto her, saying, `David hath sent us unto thee to take thee to him for a wife.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And she riseth and boweth herself--face to the earth--and saith, `Lo, thy handmaid [is] for a maid-servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Abigail hasteth and riseth, and rideth on the ass; and five of her young women who are going at her feet; and she goeth after the messengers of David, and is to him for a wife.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Ahinoam hath David taken from Jezreel, and they are--even both of them--to him for wives;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and Saul gave Michal his daughter, wife to David, to Phalti son of Laish, who [is] of Gallim.</p>

</body>
</html>