<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass when Saul hath turned back from after the Philistines, that they declare to him, saying, `Lo, David [is] in the wilderness of En-gedi.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Saul taketh three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and goeth to seek David and his men, on the front of the rocks of the wild goats,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and he cometh in unto folds of the flock, on the way, and there [is] a cave, and Saul goeth in to cover his feet; and David and his men in the sides of the cave are abiding.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the men of David say unto him, `Lo, the day of which Jehovah said unto thee, Lo, I am giving thine enemy into thy hand, and thou hast done to him as it is good in thine eyes;' and David riseth and cutteth off the skirt of the upper robewhich [is] on Saul--gently.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it cometh to pass afterwards that the heart of David smiteth him, because that he hath cut off the skirt which [is] on Saul,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and he saith to his men, `Far be it from me, by Jehovah; I do not do this thing to my lord--to the anointed of Jehovah--to put forth my hand against him, for the anointed of Jehovah he [is].'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And David subdueth his men by words, and hath not permitted them to rise against Saul; and Saul hath risen from the cave, and goeth on the way;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and David riseth afterwards, and goeth out from the cave, and calleth after Saul, saying, `My lord, O king!' And Saul looketh attentively behind him, and David boweth--face to the earth--and doth obeisance.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David saith to Saul, `Why dost thou hear the words of man, saying, Lo, David is seeking thine evil?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lo, this day have thine eyes seen how that Jehovah hath given thee to-day into my hand in the cave; and [one] said to slay thee, and [mine eye] hath pity on thee, and I say, I do not put forth my hand against my lord, for the anointed of Jehovah he [is].</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `And, my father, see, yea see the skirt of thine upper robe in my hand; for by cutting off the skirt of thy upper robe, and I have not slain thee, know and see that there is not in my hand evil and transgression, and I have not sinned against thee, and thou art hunting my soul to take it!</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `Jehovah doth judge between me and thee, and Jehovah hath avenged me of thee, and my hand is not on thee;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> as saith the simile of the ancients, From the wicked goeth out wickedness, and my hand is not on thee.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `After whom hath the king of Israel come out? after whom art thou pursuing? -- after a dead dog! after one flea!</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jehovah hath been for judge, and hath judged between me and thee, yea, he seeth and pleadeth my cause, and doth deliver me out of thy hand.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it cometh to pass, when David completeth to speak these words unto Saul, that Saul saith, `Is this thy voice, my son David?' and Saul lifteth up his voice, and weepeth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he saith unto David, `More righteous thou [art] than I; for thou hast done me good, and I have done thee evil;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and thou hast declared to-day how that thou hast done good with me, how that Jehovah shut me up into thy hand, and thou didst not slay me,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and that a man doth find his enemy, and hath sent him away in a good manner; and Jehovah doth repay thee good for that which thou didst to me this day.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `And, now, lo, I have known that thou dost certainly reign, and the kingdom of Israel hath stood in thy hand;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and, now, swear to me by Jehovah--thou dost not cut off my seed after me, nor dost thou destroy my name from the house of my father.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And David sweareth to Saul, and Saul goeth unto his house, and David and his men have gone up unto the fortress.</p>

</body>
</html>