<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the youth Samuel is serving Jehovah before Eli, and the word of Jehovah hath been precious in those days--there is no vision broken forth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it cometh to pass, at that time, that Eli is lying down in his place, and his eyes have begun to be dim--he is not able to see.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the lamp of God is not yet extinguished, and Samuel is lying down in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God [is],</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and Jehovah calleth unto Samuel, and he saith, `Here [am] I.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he runneth unto Eli, and saith, `Here [am] I, for thou hast called for me;' and he saith, `I called not; turn back, lie down;' and he goeth and lieth down.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah addeth to call again Samuel, and Samuel riseth and goeth unto Eli, and saith, `Here [am] I, for thou hast called for me;' and he saith, `I have not called, my son, turn back, lie down.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Samuel hath not yet known Jehovah, and the word of Jehovah is not yet revealed unto him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah addeth to call Samuel the third time, and he riseth and goeth unto Eli, and saith, `Here [am] I, for thou hast called for me;' and Eli understandeth that Jehovah is calling to the youth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Eli saith to Samuel, `Go, lie down, and it hath been, if He doth call unto thee, that thou hast said, Speak, Jehovah, for Thy servant is hearing;' and Samuel goeth and lieth down in his place.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jehovah cometh, and stationeth Himself, and calleth as time by time, `Samuel, Samuel;' and Samuel saith, `Speak, for Thy servant if hearing.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jehovah saith unto Samuel, `Lo, I am doing a thing in Israel, at which the two ears of every one hearing it do tingle.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In that day I establish unto Eli all that I have spoken unto his house, beginning and completing;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and I have declared to him that I am judging his house--to the age, for the iniquity which he hath known, for his sons are making themselves vile, and he hath not restrained them,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and therefore I have sworn to the house of Eli: the iniquity of the house of Eli is not atoned for, by sacrifice, and by offering--unto the age.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Samuel lieth till the morning, and openeth the doors of the house of Jehovah, and Samuel is afraid of declaring the vision unto Eli.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Eli calleth Samuel, and saith, `Samuel, my son;' and he saith, `Here [am] I.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he saith, `What [is] the word which He hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me; so doth God do to thee, and so doth He add, if thou hidest from me a word of all the words that He hath spoken unto thee.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Samuel declareth to him the whole of the words, and hath not hid from him; and he saith, `It [is] Jehovah; that which is good in His eyes He doth.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Samuel groweth up, and Jehovah hath been with him, and hath not let fall any of his words to the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and all Israel know, from Dan even unto Beer-Sheba, that Samuel is established for a prophet to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Jehovah addeth to appear in Shiloh, for Jehovah hath been revealed unto Samuel, in Shiloh, by the word of Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>