<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Samuel saith unto all Israel, `Lo, I have hearkened to your voice, to all that ye said to me, and I cause to reign over you a king,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and now, lo, the king is walking habitually before you, and I have become aged and gray-headed, and my sons, lo, they [are] with you, and I have walked habitually before you from my youth till this day.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> `Lo, here [am] I; testify against me, over-against Jehovah, and over-against His anointed; whose ox have I taken, and whose ass have I taken, and whom have I oppressed; whom have I bruised, and of whose hand have I taken a ransom, and hide mine eyes with it? --and I restore to you.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they say, `Thou hast not oppressed us, nor hast thou crushed us, nor hast thou taken from the hand of any one anything.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he saith unto them, `A witness [is] Jehovah against you: and a witness [is] His anointed this day, that ye have not found anything in my hand;' and they say, `A witness.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Samuel saith unto the people, `Jehovah--He who made Moses and Aaron, and who brought up your fathers out of the land of Egypt!</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and, now, station yourselves, and I judge you before Jehovah, with all the righteous acts of Jehovah, which He did with you, and with your fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `When Jacob hath come in to Egypt, and your fathers cry unto Jehovah, then Jehovah sendeth Moses and Aaron, and they bring out your fathers from Egypt, and cause them to dwell in this place,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and they forget Jehovah their God, and He selleth them into the hand of Sisera, head of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fight against them,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and they cry unto Jehovah, and say, We have sinned, because we have forsaken Jehovah, and serve the Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and now, deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we serve Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `And Jehovah sendeth Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivereth you out of the hand of your enemies round about, and ye dwell confidently.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `And ye see that Nahash king of the Bene-Ammon hath come against you, and ye say to me, Nay, but a king doth reign over us; and Jehovah your God [is] your king!</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And, now, lo, the king whom ye have chosen--whom ye have asked! and lo, Jehovah hath placed over you a king.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `If ye fear Jehovah, and have served Him, and hearkened to His voice, then ye do not provoke the mouth of Jehovah, and ye have been--both ye and the king who hath reigned over you--after Jehovah your God.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `And if ye do not hearken to the voice of Jehovah--then ye have provoked the mouth of Jehovah, and the hand of Jehovah hath been against you, and against your fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `Also now, station yourselves and see this great thing which Jehovah is doing before your eyes;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> is it not wheat-harvest to-day? I call unto Jehovah, and He doth give voices and rain; and know ye and see that your evil is great which ye have done in the eyes of Jehovah, to ask for you a king.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Samuel calleth unto Jehovah, and Jehovah giveth voices and rain, on that day, and all the people greatly fear Jehovah and Samuel;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and all the people say unto Samuel, `Pray for thy servants unto Jehovah thy God, and we do not die, for we have added to all our sins evil to ask for us a king.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Samuel saith unto the people, `Fear not; ye have done all this evil; only, turn not aside from after Jehovah--and ye have served Jehovah with all your heart,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and ye do not turn aside after the vain things which do not profit nor deliver, for they [are] vain,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for Jehovah doth not leave His people, on account of His great name; for Jehovah hath been pleased to make you to Him for a people.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `I, also, far be it from me to sin against Jehovah, by ceasing to pray for you, and I have directed you in the good and upright way;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> only, fear ye Jehovah, and ye have served Him in truth with all your heart, for see that which He hath made great with you;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and if ye really do evil, both ye and your king are consumed.'</p>

</body>
</html>