<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of Samuel is to all Israel, and Israel goeth out to meet the Philistines for battle, and they encamp by Eben-Ezer, and the Philistines have encamped in Aphek,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and the Philistines set themselves in array to meet Israel, and the battle spreadeth itself, and Israel is smitten before the Philistines, and they smite among the ranks in the field about four thousand men.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the people cometh in unto the camp, and the elders of Israel say, `Why hath Jehovah smitten us to-day before the Philistines? we take unto us from Shiloh the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, and it cometh into our midst, and He doth save us out of the hand of our enemies.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the people sendeth to Shiloh, and they take up thence the ark of the covenant of Jehovah of Hosts, inhabiting the cherubs, and there [are] two sons of Eli, with the ark of the covenant of God, Hophni and Phinehas.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it cometh to pass, at the coming in of the ark of the covenant of Jehovah unto the camp, that all Israel shout--a great shout--and the earth is moved.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Philistines hear the noise of the shouting, and say, `What [is] the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews?' and they perceive that the ark of Jehovah hath come in unto the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the Philistines are afraid, for they said, `God hath come in unto the camp;' and they say, `Woe to us, for there hath not been like this heretofore.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Woe to us, who doth deliver us out of the hand of these honourable gods? these [are] the gods who are smiting the Egyptians with every plague in the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Strengthen yourselves, and become men, O Philistines, lest ye do service to</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Philistines fight, and Israel is smitten, and they flee each to his tents, and the blow is very great, and there fall of Israel thirty thousand footmen;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the ark of God hath been taken, and the two sons of Eli have died, Hophni and Phinehas.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And a man of Benjamin runneth out of the ranks, and cometh into Shiloh, on that day, and his long robes [are] rent, and earth on his head;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and he cometh in, and lo, Eli is sitting on the throne by the side of the way, watching, for his heart hath been trembling for the ark of God, and the man hath come in to declare [it] in the city, and all the city crieth out.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Eli heareth the noise of the cry, and saith, `What--the noise of this tumult!' And the man hasted, and cometh in, and declareth to Eli.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Eli is a son of ninety and eight years, and his eyes have stood, and he hath not been able to see.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the man saith unto Eli, `I [am] he who hath come out of the ranks, and I out of the ranks have fled to-day;' and he saith, `What hath been the matter, my son?'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he who is bearing tidings answereth and saith, `Israel hath fled before the Philistines, and also a great slaughter hath been among the people, and also thy two sons have died- -Hophni and Phinehas--and the ark of God hath been captured.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it cometh to pass, at his mentioning the ark of God, that he falleth from off the throne backward, by the side of the gate, and his neck is broken, and he dieth, for the man [is] old and heavy, and he hath judged Israel forty years.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And his daughter-in-law, wife of Phinehas, [is] pregnant, about to bear, and she heareth the report of the taking of the ark of God, that her father-in-law and her husband have died, and she boweth, and beareth, for her pains have turned upon her.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And at the time of her death, when the women who are standing by her say, `Fear not, for a son thou hast borne,' she hath not answered, nor set her heart [to it];</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and she calleth the youth I-Chabod, saying, `Honour hath removed from Israel,' because of the taking of the ark of God, and because of her father-in-law and her husband.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And she saith, `Honour hath removed from Israel, for the ark of God hath been taken.'</p>

</body>
</html>