<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And David speaketh to Jehovah the words of this song in the day Jehovah hath delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he saith: `Jehovah [is] my rock, And my bulwark, and a deliverer to me,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My God [is] my rock--I take refuge in Him; My shield, and the horn of my salvation, My high tower, and my refuge! My Saviour, from violence Thou savest me!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Praised One, I call Jehovah: And from mine enemies I am saved.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When the breakers of death compassed me, The streams of the worthless terrify me,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The cords of Sheol have surrounded me, Before me have been the snares of death.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In mine adversity I call Jehovah, And unto my God I call, And He heareth from His temple my voice, And my cry [is] in His ears,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And shake and tremble doth the earth, Foundations of the heavens are troubled, And are shaken, for He hath wrath!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Gone up hath smoke by His nostrils. And fire from His mouth devoureth, Brands have been kindled by it.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And He inclineth heaven, and cometh down, And thick darkness [is] under His feet.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And He rideth on a cherub, and doth fly, And is seen on the wings of the wind.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And He setteth darkness Round about Him--tabernacles, Darkness of waters--thick clouds of the skies.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> From the brightness before Him Were brands of fire kindled!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thunder from the heavens doth Jehovah, And the Most High giveth forth His voice.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And He sendeth forth arrows, And scattereth them; Lightning, and troubleth them;</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And seen are the streams of the sea, Revealed are foundations of the world, By the rebuke of Jehovah, From the breath of the spirit of His anger.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He sendeth from above--He taketh me, He draweth me out of many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He delivereth me from my strong enemy, From those hating me, For they were stronger than I.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They are before me in a day of my calamity, And Jehovah is my support,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And He bringeth me out to a large place, He draweth me out for He delighted in me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jehovah recompenseth me, According to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands, He doth return to me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, And have not done wickedly against my God.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For all His judgments [are] before me, As to His statutes, I turn not from them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I am perfect before Him, And I keep myself from mine iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Jehovah returneth to me, According to my righteousness, According to my cleanness before His eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> With the kind Thou shewest Thyself kind, With the perfect man Thou shewest Thyself perfect,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> With the pure Thou shewest Thyself pure, And with the perverse Thou shewest Thyself a wrestler.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the poor people Thou dost save, And Thine eyes on the high causest to fall.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For Thou [art] my lamp, O Jehovah, And Jehovah doth lighten my darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For by Thee I run--a troop, By my God I leap a wall.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> God! Perfect [is] His way, The saying of Jehovah is tried, A shield He [is] to all those trusting in Him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For who is God save Jehovah? And who a Rock save our God?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> God--my bulwark, [my] strength, And He maketh perfect my way;</p>

<p><a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Making my feet like hinds, And on my high places causeth me to stand,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Teaching my hands for battle, And brought down was a bow of brass by mine arms,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Thou givest to me the shield of Thy salvation, And Thy lowliness maketh me great.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Thou enlargest my step under me, And mine ankles have not slidden.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I pursue mine enemies and destroy them, And I turn not till they are consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And I consume them, and smite them, And they rise not, and fall under my feet.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Thou girdest me [with] strength for battle, Thou causest my withstanders to bow under me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And mine enemies--Thou givest to me the neck, Those hating me--and I cut them off.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They look, and there is no saviour; Unto Jehovah, and He hath not answered them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And I beat them as dust of the earth, As mire of the streets I beat them small--I spread them out!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And--Thou dost deliver me From the strivings of my people, Thou placest me for a head of nations; A people I have not known do serve me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Sons of a stranger feign obedience to me, At the hearing of the ear they hearken to me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Sons of a stranger fade away, And gird themselves by their close places.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Jehovah liveth, and blessed [is] my Rock, And exalted is my God--The Rock of my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> God--who is giving vengeance to me, And bringing down peoples under me,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And bringing me forth from mine enemies, Yea, above my withstanders Thou raisest me up. From a man of violence Thou deliverest me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Therefore I confess Thee, O Jehovah, among nations. And to Thy name I sing praise.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Magnifying the salvations of His king, And doing loving-kindness to His anointed, To David, and to his seed--unto the age!'</p>

</body>
</html>