<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And his own house hath Solomon built thirteen years, and he finisheth all his house.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he buildeth the house of the forest of Lebanon; a hundred cubits [is] its length, and fifty cubits its breadth, and thirty cubits its height, on four rows of cedar pillars, and cedarbeams on the pillars;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and [it is] covered with cedar above, on the sides that [are] on the forty and five pillars, fifteen in the row.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And windows [are] in three rows, and sight [is] over-against sight three times.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And all the openings and the side-posts [are] square--windows; and sight [is] overagainst sight three times.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the porch of the pillars he hath made; fifty cubits its length, and thirty cubits its breadth, and the porch [is] before them, and pillars and a thick place [are] before them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the porch of the throne where he judgeth--the porch of judgment--he hath made, and [it is] covered with cedar from the floor unto the floor.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As to his house where he dwelleth, the other court [is] within the porch--as this work it hath been; and a house he maketh for the daughter of Pharaoh--whom Solomon hath taken--like this porch.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All these [are] of precious stone, according to the measures of hewn work, sawn with a saw, within and without, even from the foundation unto the coping, and at the outside, unto the great court.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the foundation [is] of precious stone, great stones, stones of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and above [are] precious stone, according to the measures of hewn work, and cedar;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and the great court round about [is] three rows of hewn work, and a row of cedarbeams, even for the inner court of the house of Jehovah, and for the porch of the house.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And king Solomon sendeth and taketh Hiram out of Tyre--</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> he [is] son of a woman, a widow, of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father a man of Tyre, a worker in brass, and he is filled with the wisdom and the understanding, and the knowledge to do all work in brass--and he cometh unto king Solomon, and doth all his work.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he formeth the two pillars of brass; eighteen cubits [is] the height of the one pillar, and a cord of twelve cubits doth compass the second pillar.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And two chapiters he hath made to put on the tops of the pillars, cast in brass; five cubits the height of the one chapiter, and five cubits the height of the second chapiter.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Nets of net-work, wreaths of chain-work [are] for the chapiters that [are] on the top of the pillars, seven for the one chapiter, and seven for the second chapiter.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he maketh the pillars, and two rows round about on the one net-work, to cover the chapiters that [are] on the top, with the pomegranates, and so he hath made for the second chapiter.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the chapiters that [are] on the top of the pillars [are] of lily-work in the porch, four cubits;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and the chapiters on the two pillars also above, over-against the protuberance that [is] beside the net; and the pomegranates [are] two hundred, in rows round about on the second chapiter.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he raiseth up the pillars for the porch of the temple, and he raiseth up the right pillar, and calleth its name Jachin, and he raiseth up the left pillar, and calleth its name Boaz;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and on the top of the pillars [is] lily-work; and the work of the pillars [is] completed.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he maketh the molten sea, ten by the cubit from its edge unto its edge; [it is] round all about, and five by the cubit [is] its height, and a line of thirty by the cubit doth compass it round about;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and knops beneath its brim round about are compassing it, ten by the cubit, going round the sea round about; in two rows [are] the knops, cast in its being cast.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It is standing on twelve oxen, three facing the north, and three facing the west, and three facing the south, and three facing the east, and the sea [is] upon them above, and all their hinder parts [are] inward.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And its thickness [is] an handbreadth, and its edge as the work of the edge of a cup, flowers of lilies; two thousand baths it containeth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he maketh the ten bases of brass; four by the cubit [is] the length of the one base, and four by the cubit its breadth, and three by the cubit its height.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And this [is] the work of the base: they have borders, and the borders [are] between the joinings;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and on the borders that [are] between the joinings [are] lions, oxen, and cherubs, and on the joinings a base above, and beneath the lions and the oxen [are] additions--sloping work.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And four wheels of brass [are] to the one base, and axles of brass; and its four corners have shoulders--under the laver [are] the molten shoulders, beside each addition.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And its mouth within the chapiter and above [is] by the cubit, and its mouth [is] round, the work of the base, a cubit and half a cubit; and also on its mouth [are] carvings and their borders, square, not round.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the four wheels [are] under the borders, and the spokes of the wheels [are] in the base, and the height of the one wheel [is] a cubit and half a cubit.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the work of the wheels [is] as the work of the wheel of a chariot, their spokes, and their axles, and their felloes, and their naves; the whole [is] molten.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And four shoulders [are] unto the four corners of the one base; out of the base [are] its shoulders.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And in the top of the base [is] the half of a cubit in the height all round about; and on the top of the base its spokes and its borders [are] of the same.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he openeth on the tablets of its spokes, and on its borders, cherubs, lions, and palm-trees, according to the void space of each, and additions round about.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Thus he hath made the ten bases; one casting, one measure, one form, have they all.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he maketh ten lavers of brass; forty baths doth the one laver contain, four by the cubit [is] the one laver, one laver on the one base [is] to the ten bases;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and he putteth the five bases on the right side of the house, and five on the left side of the house, and the sea he hath put on the right side of the house, eastward--over-against the south.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Hiram maketh the lavers, and the shovels, and the bowls; and Hiram completeth to do all the work that he made for king Solomon, [for] the house of Jehovah;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> pillars two, and bowls of the chapiters that [are] on the top of the pillars two, and the nets two, to cover the two bowls of the chapiters that [are] on the top of the pillars;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and the pomegranates four hundred for the two nets, two rows of pomegranates for the one net, to cover the two bowls of the chapiters that [are] on the front of the pillars;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> and the ten bases, and the ten lavers on the bases;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and the one sea, the twelve oxen under the sea,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and the pots, and the shovels, and the bowls; and all these vessels, that Hiram hath made to king Solomon [for] the house of Jehovah, [are] of brass--polished.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> In the circuit of the Jordan hath the king cast them, in the thick soil of the ground, between Succoth and Zarthan.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And Solomon placeth the whole of the vessels; because of the very great abundance, the weight of the brass hath not been searched out.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And Solomon maketh all the vessels that [are] in the house of Jehovah: the altar of gold, and the table--on which [is] the bread of the Presence--of gold,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> and the candlesticks, five on the right, and five on the left, before the oracle, of refined gold, and the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, of gold,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> and the basins, and the snuffers, and the bowls, and the spoons, and the censers, of refined gold, and the hinges for the doors of the inner-house, for the holy of holies, for the doors of the house of the temple, of gold.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And it is complete--all the work that king Solomon hath made [for] the house of Jehovah, and Solomon bringeth in the sanctified things of David his father; the silver, and the gold, and the vessels he hath put in the treasuries of the house of Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>