<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the queen of Sheba is hearing of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of Jehovah, and cometh to try him with enigmas,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and she cometh to Jerusalem, with a very great company, camels bearing spices, and very much gold, and precious stone, and she cometh unto Solomon, and speaketh unto him all that hath been with her heart.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Solomon declareth to her all her matters--there hath not been a thing hid from the king that he hath not declared to her.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the queen of Sheba seeth all the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he built,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the food of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the standing of his ministers, and their clothing, and his butlers, and his burnt-offering that he causeth to ascend in the house of Jehovah, and there hath not been in her any more spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she saith unto the king, `True hath been the word that I heard in my land, concerning thy matters and thy wisdom;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and I gave no credence to the words till that I have come, and my eyes see, and lo, it was not declared to me--the half; thou hast added wisdom and goodness unto the report that I heard.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O the happiness of thy men, O the happiness of thy servants--these--who are standing before thee continually, who are hearing thy wisdom!</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jehovah thy God is blessed who delighted in thee, to put thee on the throne of Israel; in Jehovah's loving Israel to the age He doth set thee for king, to do judgment and righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And she giveth to the king a hundred and twenty talents of gold, and spices very many, and precious stone; there came not like that spice any more for abundance that the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And also, the navy of Hiram that bore gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir almug-trees very many, and precious stone;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and the king maketh the almug-trees a support for the house of Jehovah, and for the house of the king, and harps and psalteries for singers; there have not come such almug-trees, nor have there been seen [such] unto this day.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire that she asked, apart from that which he gave to her as a memorial of king Solomon, and she turneth and goeth to her land, she and her servants.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the weight of the gold that hath come to Solomon in one year is six hundred sixty and six talents of gold,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> apart from [that of] the tourists, and of the traffic of the merchants, and of all the kings of Arabia, and of the governors of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And king Solomon maketh two hundred targets of alloyed gold--six hundred of gold go up on the one target;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and three hundred shields of alloyed gold--three pounds of gold go up on the one shield; and the king putteth them [in] the house of the forest of Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the king maketh a great throne of ivory, and overlayeth it with refined gold;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> six steps hath the throne, and a round top [is] to the throne behind it, and hands [are] on this [side] and on that, unto the place of the sitting, and two lions are standing near the hands,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and twelve lions are standing there on the six steps, on this [side] and on that; it hath not been made so for any kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon [are] of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon [are] of refined gold--there are none of silver; it was not reckoned in the days of Solomon for anything,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for a navy of Tarshish hath the king at sea with a navy of Hiram; once in three years cometh the navy of Tarshish, bearing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And king Solomon is greater than any of the kings of the earth for riches and for wisdom,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and all the earth is seeking the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom that God hath put into his heart,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and they are bringing each his present, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and garments, and armour, and spices, horses, and mules, the matter of a year in a year.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Solomon gathereth chariots, and horsemen, and he hath a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, and he placeth them in the cities of the chariot, and with the king in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the king maketh the silver in Jerusalem as stones, and the cedars he hath made as the sycamores that [are] in the low country, for abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the outgoing of the horses that king Solomon hath [is] from Egypt, and from Keveh; merchants of the king take from Keveh at a price;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and a chariot cometh up and cometh out of Egypt for six hundred silverlings, and a horse for fifty and a hundred, and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Aram; by their hand they bring out.</p>

</body>
</html>