<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam son of Nebat, reigned hath Abijam over Judah;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> three years he hath reigned in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother [is] Maachah daughter of Abishalom;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and he walketh in all the sins of his father, that he did before him, and his heart hath not been perfect with Jehovah his God, as the heart of David his father;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but for David's sake hath Jehovah his God given to him a lamp in Jerusalem, to raise up his son after him, and to establish Jerusalem,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> in that David did that which [is] right in the eyes of Jehovah, and turned not aside from all that He commanded him all days of his life--only in the matter of Uriah the Hittite;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and war hath been between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the rest of the matters of Abijam, and all that he did, are they not written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? And war hath been between Abijam and Jeroboam;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and Abijam lieth with his fathers, and they bury him in the city of David, and reign doth Asa his son in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel reigned hath Asa over Judah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and forty and one years he hath reigned in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother [is] Maachah daughter of Abishalom.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Asa doth that which [is] right in the eyes of Jehovah, like David his father,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and removeth the whoremongers out of the land, and turneth aside all the idols that his fathers made;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and also Maachah his mother--he turneth her aside from being mistress, in that she made a horrible thing for a shrine, and Asa cutteth down her horrible thing, and burneth [it] by the brook Kidron;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the high places have not turned aside; only, the heart of Asa hath been perfect with Jehovah all his days,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and he bringeth in the sanctified things of his father, and his own sanctified things, to the house of Jehovah, silver, and gold, and vessels.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And war hath been between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and Baasha king of Israel goeth up against Judah, and buildeth Ramah, not to permit any one going out and coming in to Asa king of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Asa taketh all the silver and the gold that are left in the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the house of the king, and giveth them into the hand of his servants, and king Asa sendeth them unto Ben-Hadad, son of Tabrimmon, son of Hezion king of Aram, who is dwelling in Damascus, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> `A covenant [is] between me and thee, between my father and thy father; lo, I have sent to thee a reward of silver and gold; go, break thy covenant with Baasha king of Israel, and he goeth up from off me.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Ben-Hadad hearkeneth unto king Asa, and sendeth the heads of the forces that he hath against cities of Israel, and smiteth Ijon, and Dan, and Abel-Beth-Maachah, and all Chinneroth, besides all the land of Naphtali;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and it cometh to pass at Baasha's hearing, that he ceaseth from building Ramah, and dwelleth in Tirzah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And king Asa hath summoned all Judah--there is none exempt--and they lift up the stones of Ramah, and its wood, that Baasha hath built, and king Asa buildeth with them Geba of Benjamin, and Mizpah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the rest of all the matters of Asa, and all his might, and all that he did, and the cities that he built, are they not written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah? Only, at the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and Asa lieth with his fathers, and is buried with his fathers in the city of David his father, and Jehoshaphat his son reigneth in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Nadab son of Jeroboam hath reigned over Israel, in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and he reigneth over Israel two years,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and doth the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, and goeth in the way of his father, and in his sin that he made Israel to sin.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And conspire against him doth Baasha son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, and Baasha smiteth him in Gibbethon, which [is] to the Philistines--and Nadab and all Israel are laying siege against Gibbethon--</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> yea, Baasha putteth him to death in the third year of Asa king of Judah, and reigneth in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it cometh to pass, at his reigning, he hath smitten the whole house of Jeroboam, he hath not left any breathing to Jeroboam till his destroying him, according to the word of Jehovah, that He spake by the hand of His servant Ahijah the Shilonite,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> because of the sins of Jeroboam that he sinned, and that he caused Israel to sin, by his provocation with which he provoked to anger Jehovah, God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the rest of the matters of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And war hath been between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> In the third year of Asa king of Judah reigned hath Baasha son of Ahijah over all Israel in Tirzah, twenty and four years,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and he doth the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, and walketh in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin that he caused Israel to sin.</p>

</body>
</html>