<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass, in the four hundred and eightieth year of the going out of the sons of Israel from the land of Egypt, in the fourth year--in the month of Zif, it [is] the second month--of the reigning of Solomon over Israel, that he buildeth the house for Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As to the house that king Solomon hath built for Jehovah, sixty cubits [is] its length, and twenty its breadth, and thirty cubits its height.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As to the porch on the front of the temple of the house, twenty cubits [is] its length on the front of the breadth of the house; ten by the cubit [is] its breadth on the front of the house;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and he maketh for the house windows of narrow lights.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he buildeth against the wall of the house a couch round about, [even] the walls of the house round about, of the temple and of the oracle, and maketh sides round about.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The lowest couch, five by the cubit [is] its breadth; and the middle, six by the cubit [is] its breadth; and the third, seven by the cubit [is] its breadth, for withdrawings he hath put to the house round about, without--not to lay hold on the walls of the house.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the house, in its being built, of perfect stone brought [thither] hath been built, and hammer, and the axe--any instrument of iron--was not heard in the house, in its being built.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The opening of the middle side [is] at the right shoulder of the house, and with windings they go up on the middle one, and from the middle one unto the third.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he buildeth the house, and completeth it, and covereth the house [with] beams and rows of cedars.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he buildeth the couch against all the house, five cubits [is] its height, and it taketh hold of the house by cedar-wood.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the word of Jehovah is unto Solomon, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `This house that thou art building--if thou dost walk in My statutes, and My judgments dost do, yea, hast done all My commands, to walk in them, then I have established My word with thee, which I spake unto David thy father,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and have tabernacled in the midst of the sons of Israel, and do not forsake My people Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Solomon buildeth the house and completeth it;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and he buildeth the walls of the house within with beams of cedar, from the floor of the house unto the walls of the ceiling; he hath overlaid with wood the inside, and covereth the floor of the house with ribs of fir.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he buildeth the twenty cubits on the sides of the house with ribs of cedar, from the floor unto the walls; and he buildeth for it within, for the oracle, for the holy of holies.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And forty by the cubit was the house, it [is] the temple before [it].</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the cedar for the house within [is] carvings of knobs and openings of flowers; the whole [is] cedar, there is not a stone seen.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the oracle in the midst of the house within he hath prepared, to put there the ark of the covenant of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And before the oracle [is] twenty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in breadth, and twenty cubits [is] its height; and he overlayeth it with gold refined, and overlayeth the altar with cedar.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Solomon overlayeth the house within with gold refined, and causeth [it] to pass over in chains of gold before the oracle, and overlayeth it with gold.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the whole of the house he hath overlaid with gold, till the completion of all the house; and the whole of the altar that the oracle hath, he hath overlaid with gold.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he maketh within the oracle two cherubs, of the oil-tree, ten cubits [is] their height;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and five cubits [is] the one wing of the cherub, and five cubits the second wing of the cherub, ten cubits from the ends of its wings even unto the ends of its wings;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and ten by the cubit [is] the second cherub, one measure and one form [are] to the two cherubs,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> the height of the one cherub [is] ten by the cubit, and so [is] the second cherub;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and he setteth the cherubs in the midst of the inner house, and they spread out the wings of the cherubs, and a wing of the one cometh against the wall, and a wing of the second cherub is coming against the second wall, and their wings [are]unto the midst of the house, coming wing against wing;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and he overlayeth the cherubs with gold,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and all the walls of the house round about he hath carved with openings of carvings, cherubs, and palm trees, and openings of flowers, within and without.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the floor of the house he hath overlaid with gold, within and without;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> as to the opening of the oracle, he made doors of the oil-tree; the lintel, side-posts, a fifth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the two doors [are] of the oil-tree, and he hath carved upon them carvings of cherubs, and palm-trees, and openings of flowers, and overlaid with gold, and he causeth the gold to go down on the cherubs and on the palm-trees.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And so he hath made for the opening of the temple, side-posts of the oil-tree, from the fourth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the two doors [are] of fir-tree, the two sides of the one door are revolving, and the two hangings of the second door are revolving.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he hath carved cherubs, and palms, and openings of flowers, and overlaid with straightened gold the graved work.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he buildeth the inner court, three rows of hewn work, and a row of beams of cedar.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> In the fourth year hath the house of Jehovah been founded, in the month Zif,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and in the eleventh year, in the month Bul--[that is] the eighth month--hath the house been finished in all its matters, and in all its ordinances, and he buildeth it seven years.</p>

</body>
</html>