<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Kings 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Kings 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the twenty and seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel reigned hath Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> a son of sixteen years was he in his reigning, and fifty and two years he hath reigned in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother [is] Jecholiah of Jerusalem,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and he doth that which [is] right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that Amaziah his father did,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> only, the high places have not turned aside--yet are the people sacrificing and making perfume in high places.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah smiteth the king, and he is a leper unto the day of his death, and he dwelleth in a separate house, and Jotham son of the king [is] over the house, judging the people of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the rest of the matters of Azariah, and all that he did, are they not written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Azariah lieth with his fathers, and they bury him with his fathers, in the city of David, and reign doth Jotham his son in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In the thirty and eighth year of Azariah king of Judah reigned hath Zechariah son of Jeroboam over Israel, in Samaria, six months,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and he doth the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, as did his fathers, he hath not turned aside from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that he caused Israel to sin.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Shallum son of Jabesh conspireth against him, and smiteth him before the people, and putteth him to death, and reigneth in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the rest of the matters of Zechariah, lo, they are written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It [is] the word of Jehovah that He spake unto Jehu, saying, `Sons of the fourth [generation] do sit for thee on the throne of Israel;' and it is so.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Shallum son of Jabesh hath reigned in the thirty and ninth year of Uzziah king of Judah, and he reigneth a month of days in Samaria;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and go up doth Menahem son of Gadi from Tirzah and cometh in to Samaria, and smiteth Shallum son of Jabesh in Samaria, and putteth him to death, and reigneth in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the rest of the matters of Shallum, and his conspiracy that he made, lo, they are written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then doth Menahem smite Tiphsah, and all who [are] in it, and its borders from Tirzah, for it opened not [to him], and he smiteth [it], all its pregnant women he hath ripped up.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In the thirty and ninth year of Azariah king of Judah reigned hath Menahem son of Gadi over Israel--ten years in Samaria.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he doth the evil in the eyes of Jehovah, he hath turned not aside from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that he caused Israel to sin, all his days.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Pul king of Asshur hath come against the land, and Menahem giveth to Pul a thousand talents of silver, for his hand being with him to strengthen the kingdom in his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Menahem bringeth out the silver [from] Israel, [from] all the mighty men of wealth, to give to the king of Asshur, fifty shekels of silver for each one, and the king of Asshur turneth back and hath not stayed there in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the rest of the matters of Menahem, and all that he did, are they not written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Menahem lieth with his fathers, and reign doth Pekahiah his son in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah hath Pekahiah son of Menahem reigned over Israel, in Samaria--two years,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and he doth the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, he hath not turned aside from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat that he caused Israel to sin.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Pekah son of Remaliah, his captain, doth conspire against him, and smiteth him in Samaria, in the high place of the house of the king with Argob and Arieh, and with him fifty men of the sons of the Gileadites, and he putteth him to death, and reigneth in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the rest of the matters of Pekahiah, and all that he did, lo, they are written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> In the fifty and second year of Azariah king of Judah, reigned hath Pekah son of Remaliah over Israel, in Samaria--twenty years,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and he doth the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah, he hath not turned aside from the sins of Jeroboam son of Nebat, that he caused Israel to sin.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> In the days of Pekah king of Israel hath Tiglath-Pileser king of Asshur come, and taketh Ijon, and Abel-Beth-Maachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and removeth them to Asshur.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And make a conspiracy doth Hoshea son of Elah against Pekah son of Remaliah, and smiteth him, and putteth him to death, and reigneth in his stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham son of Uzziah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the rest of the matters of Pekah, and all that he did, lo, they are written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> In the second year of Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel reigned hath Jotham son of Uzziah king of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> A son of twenty and five years was he in his reigning, and sixteen years he hath reigned in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother [is] Jerusha daughter of Zadok,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and he doth that which [is] right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that Uzziah his father did he hath done.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Only, the high places have not turned aside--yet are the people sacrificing and making perfume in high places; he hath built the high gate of the house of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the rest of the matters of Jotham, and all that he did, are they not written on the book of the Chronicles of the kings of Judah?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> In those days hath Jehovah begun to send against Judah Rezin king of Amram and Pekah son of Remaliah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Jotham lieth with his fathers, and is buried with his fathers, in the city of David his father, and reign doth Ahaz his son in his stead.</p>

</body>
</html>