<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Kings 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Kings 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass, in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, reigned hath Hezekiah son of Ahaz king of Judah;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> a son of twenty and five years was he in his reigning, and twenty and nine years he hath reigned in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother [is] Abi daughter of Zechariah.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he doth that which [is] right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that David his father did,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> he hath turned aside the high places, and broken in pieces the standing-pillars, and cut down the shrine, and beaten down the brazen serpent that Moses made, for unto these days were the sons of Israel making perfume to it, and he calleth it`a piece of brass.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In Jehovah, God of Israel, he hath trusted, and after him there hath not been like him among all the kings of Judah, nor [among any] who were before him;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and he cleaveth to Jehovah, he hath not turned aside from after Him, and keepeth His commands that Jehovah commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jehovah hath been with him, in every place where he goeth out he acteth wisely, and he rebelleth against the king of Asshur, and hath not served him;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> he hath smitten the Philistines unto Gaza, and its borders, from a tower of watchers unto the fenced city.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it cometh to pass, in the fourth year of king Hezekiah--it [is] the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel--come up hath Shalmaneser king of Asshur against Samaria, and layeth siege to it,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and they capture it at the end of three years; in the sixth year of Hezekiah--it [is] the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel--hath Samaria been captureth,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the king of Asshur removeth Israel to Asshur, and placed them in Halah, and in Habor [by] the river Gozan, and [in] cities of the Medes,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> because that they have not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah their God, and transgress His covenant--all that He commanded Moses, servant of Jehovah--yea, they have not hearkened nor done [it].</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah hath Sennacherib king of Asshur come up against all the fenced cities of Judah, and seizeth them,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Hezekiah king of Judah sendeth unto the king of Asshur to Lachish, saying, `I have sinned, turn back from off me; that which thou puttest on me I bear;' and the king of Asshur layeth on Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver, and thirty talents of gold,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Hezekiah giveth all the silver that is found in the house of Jehovah, and in the treasures of the house of the king;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> at that time hath Hezekiah cut off the doors of the temple of Jehovah, and the pillars that Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid, and giveth them to the king of Asshur.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the king of Asshur sendeth Tartan, and the chief of the eunuchs, and the chief of the butlers, from Lachish, unto king Hezekiah, with a heavy force, to Jerusalem, and they go up and come in to Jerusalem, and they go up, and come in andstand by the conduit of the upper pool that [is] in the highway of the fuller's field.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they call unto the king, and go out unto them doth Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who [is] over the house, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah son of Asaph the remembrancer.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the chief of the butlers saith unto them, `Say, I pray you, unto Hezekiah, Thus said the great king, the king of Asshur, What [is] this confidence in which thou hast confided?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou hast said: Only a word of the lips! counsel and might [are] for battle; now, on whom hast thou trusted that thou hast rebelled against me?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> `Now, lo, thou hast trusted for thee on the staff of this broken reed, on Egypt; which a man leaneth on, and it hath gone into his hand, and pierced it! --so [is] Pharaoh king of Egypt to all those trusting on him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> `And when ye say unto me, Unto Jehovah our God we have trusted, is it not He whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath turned aside, and saith to Judah and to Jerusalem, Before this altar do ye bow yourselves in Jerusalem?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `And, now, give a pledge for thee, I pray thee, to my lord the king of Asshur, and I give to thee two thousand horses, if thou art able to give for thee riders on them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And how dost thou turn back the face of one captain of the least of the servants of my lord, that thou dost trust for thee on Egypt for chariot, and for horsemen?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now, without Jehovah have I come up against this place to destroy it? Jehovah said unto me, Go up against this land, and thou hast destroyed it.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Eliakim son of Hilkiah saith--and Shebna, and Joah--to the chief of the butlers, `Speak, we pray thee, unto thy servants [in] Aramaean, for we are understanding, and do not speak with us [in] Jewish, in the ears of the people who [are] on the wall.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the chief of the butlers saith unto them, `For thy lord, and unto thee, hath my lord sent me to speak these words? is it not for the men, those sitting on the wall to eat their own dung and to drink their own water, with you?'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the chief of the butlers standeth and calleth with a great voice [in] Jewish, and speaketh and saith, `Hear ye a word of the great king, the king of Asshur:</p>

<p><a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> thus said the king, Let not Hezekiah lift you up, for he is not able to deliver you out of his hand;</p>

<p><a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and let not Hezekiah make you trust unto Jehovah, saying, Jehovah doth certainly deliver us, and this city is not given into the hand of the king of Asshur.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> `Do not hearken unto Hezekiah, for thus said the king of Asshur, Make with me a blessing, and come out unto me, and eat ye each of his vine, and each of his fig-tree, and drink ye each the waters of his own well,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> till my coming in, and I have taken you unto a land like your own land, a land of corn and new wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of oil olive, and honey, and live, and die not; and do not hearken unto Hezekiah, when he persuadeth you, saying, Jehovah doth deliver us.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> `Have the gods of the nations delivered at all each his land out of the hand of the king of Asshur?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Where [are] the gods of Hamath and Arpad? where the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivvah, that they have delivered Samaria out of my hand?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Who [are they] among all the gods of the lands that have delivered their land out of my hand, that Jehovah doth deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the people have kept silent, and have not answered him a word, for the command of the king is, saying, `Do not answer him.'</p>

<p><a id="c18_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Eliakim son of Hilkiah, who [is] over the house, cometh in, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah son of Asaph the remembrancer, unto Hezekiah, with rent garments, and they declare to him the words of the chief of the butlers.</p>

</body>
</html>