<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These [are] sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sons of Judah: Er, and Onan, and Shelah, three have been born to him of a daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, first-born of Judah, is evil in the eyes of Jehovah, and He putteth him to death.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Tamar his daughter-in-law hath borne to him Pharez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah [are] five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sons of Pharez: Hezron, and Hamul.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara; all of them five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And sons of Carmi: Achar, troubler of Israel, who trespassed in the devoted thing.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And sons of Ethan: Azariah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And sons of Hezron who were born to him; Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Ram begat Amminadab, and Amminadab begat Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Boaz,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and Jesse begat his first-born Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimea the third,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Nethaneel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ozem the sixth, David the seventh,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and their sisters Zeruiah and Abigail. And sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, and Joab, and Asah-El--three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Abigail hath borne Amasa, and the father of Amasa [is] Jether the Ishmeelite.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Caleb son of Hezron hath begotten Azubah, Isshah, and Jerioth; and these [are] her sons: Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Azubah dieth, and Caleb taketh to him Ephrath, and she beareth to him Hur.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Hur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezaleel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And afterwards hath Hezron gone in unto a daughter of Machir father of Gilead, and he hath taken her, and he [is] a son of sixty years, and she beareth to him Segub.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Segub begat Jair, and he hath twenty and three cities in the land of Gilead,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and he taketh Geshur and Aram, the small villages of Jair, from them, with Kenath and its small towns, sixty cities--all these [belonged to] the sons of Machir father of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And after the death of Hezron in Caleb-Ephratah, then the wife of Hezron, Abijah, even beareth to him Asshur, father of Tekoa.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And sons of Jerahmeel, first-born of Hezron, are: the first-born Ram, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, Ahijah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Jerahmeel hath another wife, and her name [is] Atarah, she [is] mother of Onam.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And sons of Ram, first-born of Jerahmeel, are Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And sons of Onam are Shammai and Jada. And sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the name of the wife of Abishur [is] Abihail, and she beareth to him Ahban and Molid.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And sons of Nadab: Seled, and Appaim; and Seled dieth without sons.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And sons of Appaim: Ishi. And sons of Ishi: Sheshan. And sons of Sheshan: Ahlai.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And sons of Jada, brother of Shammai: Jether, and Jonathan: and Jether dieth without sons.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And sons of Jonathan: Peleth, and Zaza. These were sons of Jerahmeel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Sheshan had no sons, but daughters, and Sheshan hath a servant, an Egyptian, and his name [is] Jarha,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and Sheshan giveth his daughter to Jarha his servant for a wife, and she beareth to him Attai;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and Obed begat Jehu,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and Jehu begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Helez, and Helez begat Eleasah,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and Eleasah begat Sismai, and Sismai begat Shallum,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> and Shallum begat Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begat Elishama.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And sons of Caleb brother of Jerahmeel: Mesha his first-born, he [is] father of Ziph; and sons of Mareshah: Abi-Hebron.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And sons of Hebron: Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Shema begat Raham father of Jorkoam, and Rekem begat Shammai.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And a son of Shammai [is] Maon, and Maon [is] father of Beth-Zur.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Ephah concubine of Caleb bare Haran, and Moza, and Gazez; and Haran begat Gazez.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jotham, and Geshem, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> The concubine of Caleb, Maachah, bare Sheber and Tirhanah;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> and she beareth Shaaph father of Madmannah, Sheva father of Machbenah, and father of Gibea; and a daughter of Caleb [is] Achsa.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> These were sons of Caleb son of Hur, first-born of Ephrathah: Shobal father of Kirjath-Jearim,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Salma father of Beth-Lehem, Hareph father of Beth-Gader.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And there are sons to Shobal father of Kirjath-Jearim: Haroeh, half of the Menuhothite;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and the families of Kirjath-Jearim: the Ithrite, and the Puhite, and the Shumathite, and the Mishraite: from these went out the Zareathite, and the Eshtaulite.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Sons of Salma: Beth-Lehem, and the Netophathite, Atroth, Beth-Joab, and half of the Menuhothite, the Zorite;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> and the families of the scribes the inhabitants of Jabez: Tirathites, Shimeathites, Suchathites. They [are] the Kenites, those coming of Hammath father of the house of Rechab.</p>

</body>
</html>