<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And gathered are all Israel unto David to Hebron, saying, `Lo, thy bone and thy flesh [are] we;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> even in time past, even in Saul's being king, it is thou who art taking out and bringing in Israel, and Jehovah thy God saith to thee: Thou dost feed My people Israel, and thou art leader over My people Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And all the elders of Israel come in unto the king to Hebron, and David maketh with them a covenant in Hebron before Jehovah, and they anoint David for king over Israel, according to the word of Jehovah by the hand of Samuel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And David goeth, and all Israel, to Jerusalem--it [is] Jebus--and there the Jebusite, the inhabitants of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the inhabitants of Jebus say to David, `Thou dost not come in hither;' and David captureth the fortress of Zion--it [is] the city of David.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And David saith, `Whoever smiteth the Jebusite first doth become head and prince;' and go up first doth Joab son of Zeruiah and becometh head.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And David dwelleth in the fortress, therefore they have called it, `City of David;'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and he buildeth the city round about, from Millo, and unto the circumference, and Joab restoreth the rest of the city.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David goeth, going on and becoming great, and Jehovah of Hosts [is] with him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And these [are] heads of the mighty ones whom David hath, who are strengthening themselves with him in his kingdom, with all Israel, to cause him to reign, according to the word of Jehovah, over Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And this [is] an account of the mighty ones whom David hath: Jashobeam son of a Hachmonite [is] head of the thirty; he is lifting up his spear against three hundred--wounded, at one time.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And after him [is] Eleazar son of Dodo the Ahohite, he [is] among the three mighty;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> he hath been with David in Pas-Dammim, and the Philistines have been gathered there to battle, and a portion of the field is full of barley, and the people have fled from the face of the Philistines,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and they station themselves in the midst of the portion, and deliver it, and smite the Philistines, and Jehovah saveth--a great salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And three of the thirty heads go down on the rock unto David, unto the cave of Adullam, and the host of the Philistines is encamping in the valley of Rephaim,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and David [is] then in the fortress, and the station of the Philistines [is] then in Beth-Lehem,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and David longeth, and saith, `Who doth give me to drink water from the well of Beth-Lehem, that [is] at the gate!'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the three break through the camp of the Philistines, and draw water from the well of Beth-Lehem, that [is] at the gate, and bear and bring in unto David, and David hath not been willing to drink it, and poureth it out to Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and saith, `Far be it from me, by my God, to do this; the blood of these men do I drink with their lives? for with their lives they have brought it;' and he was not willing to drink it; these [things] did the three mighty ones.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Abishai brother of Joab, he hath been head of the three: and he is lifting up his spear against three hundred--wounded, and hath a name among three.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Of the three by the two he is honoured, and becometh their head; and unto the [first] three he hath not come.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Benaiah son of Jehoiada, son of a man of valour, of great deeds, from Kabzeel: he hath smitten the two lion-like Moabites, and he hath gone down and smitten the lion in the midst of the pit, in the day of snow.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he hath smitten the man, the Egyptian--a man of measure, five by the cubit--and in the hand of the Egyptian [is] a spear like a beam of weavers, and he goeth down unto him with a rod, and taketh violently away the spear out of the hand of the Egyptian, and slayeth him with his own spear.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> These [things] hath Benaiah son of Jehoiada done, and hath a name among the three mighty ones.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Of the thirty, lo, he [is] honoured, and unto the [first] three he hath not come, and David setteth him over his guard.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the mighty ones of the forces [are] Asahel brother of Joab, Elhanan son of Dodo of Beth-Lehem,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abi-Ezer the Annethothite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Maharai the Netophathite, Heled son of Baanah the Netophathite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Ithai son of Ribai of Gibeah, of the sons of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan son of Shage the Hararite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Ahiam son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal son of Ur,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Hezor the Carmelite, Naarai son of Ezbai,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Joel brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Haggeri,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, bearer of the weapons of Joab son of Zeruiah,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Uriah the Hittite, Zabad son of Ahlai,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, head of the Reubenites, and by him thirty,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Hanan son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel sons of Hothan the Aroerite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Jediael son of Shimri, and Joha his brother the Tizite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mesobaite.</p>

</body>
</html>