<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And they bring in the ark of God, and set it up in the midst of the tent that David hath stretched out for it, and they bring near burnt-offerings and peace-offerings before God;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and David ceaseth from offering the burnt-offering and the peace-offerings, and blesseth the people in the name of Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and giveth a portion to every man of Israel, both man and woman: to each a cake of bread, and a measure of wine, and a grape-cake.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he putteth before the ark of Jehovah, of the Levites, ministers, even to make mention of, and to thank, and to give praise to Jehovah, God of Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Asaph the head, and his second Zechariah; Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-Edom, and Jeiel, with instruments of psalteries, and with harps; and Asaph with cymbals is sounding;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests [are] with trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> On that day then hath David given at the beginning to give thanks to Jehovah by the hand of Asaph and his brethren: --</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Give thanks to Jehovah, call in His name, Make known among the peoples His doings.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Sing ye to Him, sing psalms to Him, Meditate on all His wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Boast yourselves in His holy name, Rejoice doth the heart of those seeking Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Seek ye Jehovah and His strength, Seek His face continually.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Remember His wonders that He did, His signs, and the judgments of His mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O seed of Israel, His servant, O sons of Jacob, His chosen ones!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He [is] Jehovah our God, In all the earth [are] His judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Remember ye to the age His covenant, The word He commanded--To a thousand generations,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Which He hath made with Abraham, And His oath--to Isaac,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And He establisheth it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel--a covenant age-during.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Saying: To thee I give the land of Canaan, The portion of your inheritance,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> When ye are few of number, As a little thing, and sojourners in it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they go up and down, From nation unto nation, And from a kingdom unto another people.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He hath not suffered any to oppress them, And reproveth on their account kings:</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Come not against Mine anointed ones, And against My prophets do not evil.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Sing to Jehovah, all the earth, Proclaim from day unto day His salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Rehearse among nations His glory, Among all the peoples His wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For great [is] Jehovah, and praised greatly, And fearful He [is] above all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For all gods of the peoples [are] nought, And Jehovah the heavens hath made.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Honour and majesty [are] before Him, Strength and joy [are] in His place.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ascribe to Jehovah, ye families of peoples, Ascribe to Jehovah honour and strength.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Ascribe to Jehovah the honour of His name, Lift up a present, and come before Him. Bow yourselves to Jehovah, In the beauty of holiness.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Be pained before Him, all the earth:</p>

<p><a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Also, established is the world, It is not moved! The heavens rejoice, and the earth is glad, And they say among nations: Jehovah hath reigned.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Roar doth the sea, and its fulness, Exult doth the field, and all that [is] in it,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then sing do trees of the forest, From the presence of Jehovah, For He hath come to judge the earth!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Give thanks to Jehovah, for good, For to the age, [is] His kindness,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And say, Save us, O God of our salvation, And gather us, and deliver us from the nations, To give thanks to Thy holy name, To triumph in Thy praise.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Blessed [is] Jehovah, God of Israel, From the age and unto the age;' And all the people say, `Amen,' and have given praise to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he leaveth there before the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, for Asaph and for his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, according to the matter of a day in its day,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> both Obed-Edom and their brethren, sixty and eight, and Obed-Edom son of Jeduthun, and Hosah for gatekeepers,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, before the tabernacle of Jehovah, in a high place that [is] in Gibeon,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> to cause to ascend burnt-offerings to Jehovah, on the altar of burnt-offering continually, morning and evening, and for all that is written in the law of Jehovah, that He charged on Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And with them [are] Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest of those chosen, who were defined by name, to give thanks to Jehovah, for to the age [is] His kindness,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and with them--Heman and Jeduthun--[are] trumpets and cymbals for those sounding, and instruments of the song of God, and the sons of Jeduthun [are] at the gate.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And all the people go, each to his house, and David turneth round to bless his house.</p>

</body>
</html>