<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And these were sons of David, who were born to him in Hebron: the first-born Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; second Daniel, of Abigail the Carmelitess;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> the third Absalom, son of Maachah daughter of Talmai king of Geshur; the fourth Adonijah, son of Haggith;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the fifth Shephatiah, of Abital; the sixth Ithream, of Eglah his wife.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Six have been borne to him in Hebron, and he reigneth there seven years and six months, and thirty and three years he hath reigned in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And these were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon--four, of Bath-Sheba daughter of Ammiel:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> also Ibhar, and Elishama, and Eliphelet,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All [are] sons of David, apart from sons of the concubines, and Tamar their sister.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the son of Solomon [is] Rehoboam, Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Amon his son, Josiah his son.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And sons of Josiah: the first-born Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And sons of Jeconiah: Assir; Salathiel his son;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> also Malchiram and Pedaiah, and Shenazzar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel, and Shimei. And sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab-Hesed, five.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah, and Jesaiah, sons of Rephaiah, sons of Arnan, sons of Obadiah, sons of Shechaniah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And sons of Shechaniah: Shemaiah; and sons of Shemaiah: Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And sons of Neariah: Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And sons of Elioenai: Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven.</p>

</body>
</html>