<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Adam, Sheth, Enosh,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jered,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Henoch, Methuselah, Lamech,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sons of Japheth: Gomer and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And sons of Gomer: Ashchenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And sons of Javan: Elisha, and Tarshishah, Kittim, and Dodanim.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And sons of Cush: Seba and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabtecka. And sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Mizraim begat the Ludim, and the Anamim, and the Lehabim, and the Naphtuhim,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and the Pathrusim, and the Casluhim (from whom came out the Philistim), and the Caphtorim.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Canaan begat Zidon his first born, and Heth,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sons of Shem: Elam and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Arphaxad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And to Eber have been born two sons, the name of the one [is] Peleg, for in his days hath the land been divided, and the name of his brother is Joktan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab; all these [are] sons of Joktan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Eber, Peleg, Reu,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Serug, Nahor, Terah,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Abram--he [is] Abraham.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> These [are] their generations: first-born of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and Kedar, and Adheel, and Mibsam,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jetur, Naphish, and Kedema. These are sons of Ishmael.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And sons of Midian: Ephah and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah; all these [are] sons of Keturah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Abraham begetteth Isaac. Sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Sons of Eliphaz: Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And sons of Seir: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezar, and Dishan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam, and sister of Lotan [is] Timna.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And sons of Zideon: Aiah and Anah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The sons of Anah: Dishon. and sons of Dishon: Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zavan, Jakan. Sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And these [are] the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before the reigning of a king of the sons of Israel: Bela son of Beor, and the name of his city [is] Dinhabah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Bela dieth, and reign in his stead doth Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrali;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and Jobab dieth, and reign in his stead doth Husham from the land of the Temanite;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> and Husham dieth, and reign in his stead doth Hadad, son of Bedad (who smiteth Midian in the field of Moab) and the name of his city [is] Avith;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and Hadad dieth, and reign in his stead doth Samlah from Masrekah;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> and Samlah dieth, and reign in his stead doth Shaul from Rehoboth of the River;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> and Shaul dieth, and reign in his stead doth Baal-Hanan son of Achbor;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> and Baal-Hanan dieth, and reign in his stead doth Hadad, and the name of his city [is] Pai, and the name of his wife [is] Mehetabel daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-Zahab; Hadad also dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And chiefs of Edom are: chief Timnah, chief Aliah, chief Jetheth,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> chief Aholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These [are] chiefs of Edom.</p>

</body>
</html>