<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And sons of Issachar; Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimron, four.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of the house of their fathers, [even] of Tola, mighty of valour in their generations: their number in the days of David [is] twenty and two thousand and six hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah; and sons of Izrahiah: Michael, and Obadiah, and</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And beside them, by their generations, of the house of their fathers, [are] troops of the host of battle, thirty and six thousand, for they multiplied wives and sons;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and their brethren of all the families of Issachar [are] mighty of valour, eighty and seven thousand, all have their genealogy.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; heads of a house of fathers, mighty of valour, with their genealogy, twenty and two thousand, and thirty and four.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And sons of Becher: Zemirah, and Joash, and Eliezar, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alameth. All these [are] sons of Becher,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> with their genealogy, after their generations, heads of a house of their fathers, mighty of valour, twenty thousand and two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And sons of Jediael: Bilhan; and sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All these [are] sons of Jediael, even heads of the fathers, mighty in valour, seventeen thousand and two hundred going out to the host for battle.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Shuppim and Huppim [are] sons of Ir; Hushim son of Aher.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, sons of Bilhah.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Sons of Manasseh: Ashriel, whom Jaladah his Aramaean concubine bare, with Machir father of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Machir took wives for Huppim and for Shuppim, and the name of the one [is] Maachah, and the name of the second Zelophehad, and Zelophehad hath daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Maachah wife of Machir beareth a son and calleth his name Peresh, and the name of his brother [is] Sheresh, and his sons [are] Ulam and Rakem.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And son of Ulam: Bedan. These [are] sons of Gilead son of Machir, son of Manasseh.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And his sister Hammolecheth bare Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the sons of Shemida are Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead; and slain them have men of Gath who are born in the land, because they came down to take their cattle.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Ephraim their father mourneth many days, and his brethren come in to comfort him,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and he goeth in unto his wife, and she conceiveth and beareth a son, and he calleth his name Beriah, because in evil had been his house, --</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and his daughter [is] Sherah, and she buildeth Beth-Horon, the lower and the upper, and Uzzen-Sherah--</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and Rephah [is] his son, and Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Non his son, Jehoshua his son.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And their possession and their dwellings [are] Beth-El and its small towns, and to the east Naaran, and to the west Gezer and its small towns, and Shechem and its small towns, unto Gaza and its small towns;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and by the parts of the sons of Manasseh, Beth-Shean and its small towns, Taanach and its small towns, Megiddo and its small towns, Dor and its small towns; in these dwelt the sons of Joseph son of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Son of Asher: Imnah, and Ishve, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel--he [is] father of Birzavith.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Heber begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath; these [are] sons of Japhlet.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and sons of Shamer: Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And son of Helem his brother: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Sons of Zophah: Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And sons of Ulla: Arah, and Hanniel, and Rezia.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> All these [are] sons of Asher, heads of the house of the fathers, chosen ones, mighty in valour, heads of the princes, with their genealogy, for the host, for battle, their number [is] twenty and six thousand men.</p>

</body>
</html>