<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> As to sons of Reuben, first-born of Israel--for he [is] the first-born, and on account of his profaning the couch of his father hath his birthright been given to the sons of Joseph son of Israel, and [he is] not to be reckoned by genealogy for the birthright,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for Judah hath been mighty over his brother, and for leader above him, and the birthright [is] to Joseph.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sons of Reuben, first-born of Israel: Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Beerah his son, whom Tilgath-Pilneser king of Asshur removed; he [is] prince of the Reubenite.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And his brethren, by their families, in the genealogy of their generations, [are] heads: Jeiel, and Zechariah,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and Bela son of Azaz, son of Shema, son of Joel--he is dwelling in Aroer, even unto Nebo and Baal-Meon;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and at the east he dwelt even unto the entering in of the wilderness, even from the river Phrat, for their cattle were multiplied in the land of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And in the days of Saul they have made war with the Hagarites, who fall by their hand, and they dwell in their tents over all the face of the east of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the sons of Gad, over-against them have dwelt in the land of Bashan unto Salcah,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Joel the head, and Shapham the second, and Jaanai and Shaphat in Bashan;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and their brethren of the house of their fathers [are] Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jachan, and Zia, and Heber, seven.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These [are] sons of Abihail son of Huri, son of Jaroah, son of Gilead, son of Michael, son of Jeshishai, son of Jahdo, son of Buz;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ahi son of Abdiel, son of Guni, [is] head of the house of their fathers;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and they dwell in Gilead in Bashan, and in her small towns, and in all suburbs of Sharon, upon their outskirts;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> all of them reckoned themselves by genealogy in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Sons of Reuben, and the Gadite, and the half of the tribe of Manasseh, of sons of valour, men bearing shield and sword, and treading bow, and taught in battle, [are] forty and four thousand and seven hundred and sixty, going out to thehost.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they make war with the Hagarites, and Jetur, and Naphish, and Nodab,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and they are helped against them, and the Hagarites are given into their hand, and all who [are] with them, for they cried to God in battle, and He was entreated of them, because they trusted in Him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they take captive their cattle, of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses two thousand, and of human beings a hundred thousand;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for many have fallen pierced, for of God [is] the battle; and they dwell in their stead till the removal.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the sons of the half of the tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land, from Bashan unto Baal-Hermon, and Senir, and mount Hermon, they have multiplied.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And these [are] heads of the house of their fathers, even Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, men mighty in valour, men of name, heads to the house of their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they trespass against the God of their fathers, and go a-whoring after the gods of the peoples of the land whom God destroyed from their presence;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and stir up doth the God of Israel the spirit of Pul king of Asshur, and the spirit of Tilgath-Pilneser king of Asshur, and he removeth them--even the Reubenite, and the Gadite, and the half of the tribe of Manasseh--and bringeth them in to Halah, and Habor, and Hara, and the river of Gozan unto this day.</p>

</body>
</html>