<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the sons of Israel, after their number, heads of the fathers, and princes of the thousands and of the hundreds, and their officers, those serving the king in any matter of the courses, that are coming in and going out month by month, throughout all months of the year--[are] in each course twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Over the first course, for the first month, [is] Jashobeam son of Zabdiel, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> of the sons of Perez [is] the head of all princes of the hosts for the first month.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And over the course of the second month [is] Dodai the Ahohite, and his course, and Mikloth [is] the president, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Head of the third host, for the third month, [is] Benaiah son of Jehoiada, the head priest, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This Benaiah [is] a mighty one of the thirty, and over the thirty, and [in] his course [is] Ammizabad his son.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The fourth, for the fourth month, [is] Asahel brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The fifth, for the fifth month, [is] the prince Shamhuth the Izrahite, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The sixth, for the sixth month, [is] Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The seventh, for the seventh month, [is] Helez the Pelonite, of the sons of Ephraim, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The eighth, for the eighth month, [is] Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zarhite, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The ninth, for the ninth month, [is] Abiezer the Antothite, of the Benjamite, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The tenth, for the tenth month, [is] Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zarhite, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Eleventh, for the eleventh month, [is] Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the sons of Ephraim, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The twelfth, for the twelfth month, [is] Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel, and on his course [are] twenty and four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And over the tribes of Israel: Of the Reubenite, a leader [is] Eliezer son of Zichri; of the Simeonite, Shephatiah son of Maachah;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> of the Levite, Hashabiah son of Kemuel; of the Aaronite, Zadok;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> of Judah, Elihu, of the brethren of David; of Issachar, Omri son of Michael;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> of Zebulun, Ishmaiah son of Obadiah; of Naphtali, Jerimoth son of Azriel;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> of the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea son of Azaziah; of the half of the tribe of Manasseh, Joel son of Pedaiah;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> of the half of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo son of Zechariah; of Benjamin, Jaasiel son of Abner; of Dan, Azareel son of Jeroham:</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> these [are] heads of the tribes of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And David hath not taken up their number from a son of twenty years and under, for Jehovah said to multiply Israel as the stars of the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Joab son of Zeruiah hath begun to number--and hath not finished--and there is for this wrath against Israel, and the number hath not gone up in the account of the Chronicles of king David.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And over the treasures of the king [is] Azmaveth son of Adiel; and over the treasures in the field, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the towers, [is] Jehonathan son of Uzziah;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and over workmen of the field for the service of the ground [is] Ezri son of Chelub;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and over the vineyards [is] Shimei the Ramathite; and over what [is] in the vineyards for the treasures of wine [is] Zabdi the Shiphmite;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and over the olives, and the sycamores, that [are] in the low country, [is] Baal- Hanan the Gederite; and over the treasures of oil [is] Joash;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and over the herds that are feeding in Sharon [is] Shitrai the Sharonite; and over the herds in the valleys [is] Shaphat son of Adlai;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and over the camels [is] Obil the Ishmeelite; and over the asses [is] Jehdeiah the Meronothite;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and over the flock [is] Jaziz the Hagerite; all these [are] heads of the substance that king David hath.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Jonathan, uncle of David, [is] counsellor, a man of understanding, he is also a scribe; and Jehiel son of Hachmoni [is] with the sons of the king;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and Ahithophel [is] counsellor to the king; and Hushai the Archite [is] the friend of the king;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and after Ahithophel [is] Jehoiada son of Benaiah, and Abiathar; and the head of the host of the king [is] Joab.</p>

</body>
</html>