<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Benjamin begat Bela his first-born, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And there are sons to Bela: Addar, and Gera,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and Abihud, and Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And these [are] sons of Ehud: they are heads of fathers to the inhabitants of Geba, and they remove them unto Manahath;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he removed them, and begat Uzza and Ahihud.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Shaharaim begat in the field of Moab, after his sending them away; Hushim and Baara [are] his wives.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he begetteth of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and Jeuz, and Shachiah, and Mirmah. These [are] his sons, heads of fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And of Hushim he begat Ahitub and Elpaal.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And sons of Elpaal: Eber, and Misheam, and Shamer, (he built Ono and Lod and its small towns),</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and Beriah and Shema, (they [are] the heads of fathers to the inhabitants of Aijalon--they caused to flee the inhabitants of Gath),</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and Michael, and Ispah, and Joha, sons of Beriah,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and Heber,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and Ishmerai, and Jezliah, and Jobab, sons of Elpaal;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, sons of Shimei;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Ishpan, and Heber, and Eliel,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and Iphedeiah, and Penuel, sons of Shashak;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and Jaareshiah, and Eliah, and Zichri, sons of Jeroham.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> These [are] heads of fathers, by their generations, heads; these dwelt in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And in Gibeon hath the father of Gibeon dwelt, and the name of his wife [is] Maachah;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and his son, the first-born, [is] Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and Mikloth begat Shimeah. And they also over-against their brethren dwelt in Jerusalem with their brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchi-Shua, and Abinadab, and Esh-Baal.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And a son of Jonathan [is] Merib-Baal, and Merib-Baal begat Micah;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and sons of Micah: Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and Ahaz begat Jehoadah, and Jehoadah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and Moza begat Binea, Raphah [is] his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And to Azel [are] six sons, and these [are] their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these [are] sons of Azel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his first-born, Jehush the second, and Eliphelet the third.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the sons of Ulam are men mighty in valour, treading bow, and multiplying sons and son's sons, a hundred and fifty. All these [are] of the sons of Benjamin.</p>

</body>
</html>