<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And to the sons of Aaron [are] their courses: sons of Aaron [are] Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and Nadab dieth, and Abihu, in the presence of their father, and they had no sons, and Eleazar and Ithamar act as priests.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And David distributeth them, and Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their office in their service;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and there are found of the sons of Eleazar more for heads of the mighty men than of the sons of Ithamar; and they distribute them: Of the sons of Eleazar, heads for a house of fathers, sixteen; and of the sons of Ithamar, for a house oftheir fathers, eight.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they distribute them, by lots, one with another, for princes of the sanctuary, and princes of God, have been of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Shemaiah son of Nethaneel the scribe, of the Levites, writeth them before the king and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and heads of the fathers, for priests and for Levites: one house of a father being taken possession of for Eleazar, and one being taken possession of for Ithamar.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the first lot goeth out for Jehoiarib, for Jedaiah the second,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for Harim the third, for Seorim the fourth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for Malchijah the fifth, for Mijamin the sixth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for Hakkoz the seventh, for Abijah the eighth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for Jeshuah the ninth, for Shecaniah the tenth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for Eliashib the eleventh, for Jakim the twelfth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for Huppah the thirteenth, for Jeshebeab the fourteenth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for Bilgah the fifteenth, for Immer the sixteenth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for Hezir the seventeenth, for Aphses the eighteenth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for Pethahiah the nineteenth, for Jehezekel the twentieth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for Jachin the one and twentieth, for Gamul the two and twentieth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for Delaiah the three and twentieth, for Maaziah the four and twentieth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These [are] their appointments for their service, to come in to the house of Jehovah, according to their ordinance by the hand of Aaron their father, as Jehovah God of Israel, commanded them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And for the sons of Levi who are left: for sons of Amram, Shubael; for sons of Shubael: Jehdeiah.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For Rehabiah: for sons of Rehabiah, the head Ishshiah.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For the Izharite: Shelomoth; for sons of Shelomoth: Jahath.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And sons of Jeriah: Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Sons of Uzziel: Michah; for sons of Michah: Shamir.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A brother of Michah [is] Ishshiah; for sons of Ishshiah: Zechariah;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi; sons of Jaaziah: Beno;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> sons of Merari: of Jaaziah: Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons;</p>

<p><a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> for Kish: sons of Kish: Jerahmeel.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And sons of Mushi [are] Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth; these [are] sons of the Levites, for the house of their fathers,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and they cast, they also, lots over-against their brethren the sons of Aaron, before David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and heads of the fathers, for priests and for Levites; the chief father over-against his younger brother.</p>

</body>
</html>