<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For the courses of the gatekeepers: of the Korhites [is] Meshelemiah son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and to Meshelemiah [are] sons, Zechariah the first-born, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And to Obed-Edom [are] sons, Shemaiah the first-born, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethaneel the fifth,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth, for God hath blessed him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And to Shemaiah his son have sons been born, who are ruling throughout the house of their father, for they [are] mighty of valour.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Sons of Shemaiah [are] Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad; his brethren [are] sons of valour, Elihu and Semachiah,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> all these [are] of the sons of Obed-Edom; they, and their sons, and their brethren, men of valour with might for service, [are] sixty and two of Obed-Edom.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And to Meshelemiah [are] sons and brethren, sons of valour, eighteen;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and to Hosah, of the sons of Merari, [are] sons: Shimri the head (though he was not first-born, yet his father setteth him for head),</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth; all the sons and brethren of Hosah [are] thirteen.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> According to these [are] the courses of the gatekeepers; to the heads of the mighty ones [are] charges over-against their brethren, to minister in the house of Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and they cause to fall lots, as well the small as the great, according to the house of their fathers, for gate and gate.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the lot falleth eastward to Shelemiah; and [for] Zechariah his son--a counsellor with understanding--they cause to fall lots, and his lot goeth out northward:</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> to Obed-Edom southward, and to his sons, the house of the gatherings;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> to Shuppim and to Hosah to the west, with the gate Shallecheth, in the highway, the ascent, charge over-against charge;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> to the east the Levites [are] six; to the north daily four, to the south daily four, and to the gatherings two by two,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> at Parbar, to the west, [are] four at the highway, two at Parbar.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These are the courses of the gatekeepers, of the sons of the Korhite, and of the sons of Merari.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And of the Levites, Ahijah [is] over the treasures of the house of God, even for the treasures of the holy things.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Sons of Laadan: sons of the Gershonite, of Laadan, heads of the fathers of Laadan the Gershonite: Jehieli.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Sons of Jehieli: Zetham, and Joel his brother, over the treasures of the house of Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for the Amramite, for the Izharite, for the Hebronite, for the Uzzielite.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Shebuel son of Gershom, son of Moses, [is] president over the treasures.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And his brethren, of Eliezer, [are] Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> This Shelomith and his brethren [are] over all the treasures of the holy things, that David the king, and heads of the fathers, even heads of thousands, and of hundreds, and heads of the host, sanctified;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> from the battles, even from the spoil they sanctified to strengthen the house of Jehovah;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and all that Samuel the seer, and Saul son of Kish, and Abner son of Ner, and Joab son of Zeruiah sanctified, every one sanctifying [any thing--it is] by the side of Shelomith and his brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Of the Izharite, Chenaniah and his sons [are] for the outward work over Israel, for officers and for judges.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Of the Hebronite, Hashabiah and his brethren, sons of valour, a thousand and seven hundred, [are] over the inspection of Israel, beyond the Jordan westward, for all the work of Jehovah, and for the service of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Of the Hebronite, Jerijah [is] the head, of the Hebronite, according to his generations, for the fathers--in the fortieth year of the reign of David they have been sought out, and there are found among them mighty ones of valour, in Jazer of Gilead--</p>

<p><a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and his brethren, sons of valour, two thousand and seven hundred, [are] heads of the fathers, and king David appointeth them over the Reubenite, and the Gadite, and the half of the tribe of Manasseh, for every matter of God and matter of the king.</p>

</body>
</html>