<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the people of the land take Jehoahaz son of Josiah, and cause him to reign instead of his father in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A son of three and twenty years [is] Jehoahaz in his reigning, and three months he hath reigned in Jerusalem,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and turn him aside doth the king of Egypt in Jerusalem, and fineth the land a hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and the king of Egypt causeth Eliakim his brother to reign over Judah and Jerusalem, and turneth his name to Jehoiakim; and Jehoahaz his brother hath Necho taken, and bringeth him in to Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A son of twenty and five years [is] Jehoiakim in his reigning, and eleven years he hath reigned in Jerusalem, and he doth the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah his God;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> against him hath Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon come up, and bindeth him in brazen fetters to take him away to Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And of the vessels of the house of Jehovah hath Nebuchadnezzar brought in to Babylon, and putteth them in his temple in Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the rest of the matters of Jehoiakim, and his abominations that he hath done, and that which is found against him, lo, they are written on the book of the kings of Israel and Judah, and reign doth Jehoiachin his son in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A son of eight years is Jehoiachin in his reigning, and three months and ten days he hath reigned in Jerusalem, and he doth the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and at the turn of the year hath king Nebuchadnezzar sent and bringeth him in to Babylon, with the desirable vessels of the house of Jehovah, and causeth Zedekiah his brother to reign over Judah and Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A son of twenty and one years [is] Zedekiah in his reigning, and eleven years he hath reigned in Jerusalem;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and he doth the evil thing in the eyes of Jehovah his God, he hath not been humbled before Jeremiah the prophet [speaking] from the mouth of Jehovah;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and also, against king Nebuchadnezzar he hath rebelled, who had caused him to swear by God, and he hardeneth his neck, and strengtheneth his heart, against turning back unto Jehovah, God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Also, all the heads of the priests, and the people, having multiplied to commit a trespass according to all the abominations of the nations, and they defile the house of Jehovah that He hath sanctified in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jehovah, God of their fathers, sendeth unto them by the hand of His messengers--rising early and sending--for He hath had pity on His people, and on His habitation,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and they are mocking at the messengers of God, and despising His words, and acting deceitfully with His prophets, till the going up of the fury of Jehovah against His people--till there is no healing.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And He causeth to go up against them the king of the Chaldeans, and he slayeth their chosen ones by the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and hath had no pity on young man and virgin, old man and very aged--the whole He hath giveninto his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And all the vessels of the house of God, the great and the small, and the treasures of the house of Jehovah, and the treasures of the king and of his princes--the whole he hath brought in to Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they burn the house of God, and break down the wall of Jerusalem, and all its palaces they have burnt with fire, and all its desirable vessels--to destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he removeth those left of the sword unto Babylon, and they are to him and to his sons for servants, till the reigning of the kingdom of Persia,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> to fulfil the word of Jehovah in the mouth of Jeremiah, till the land hath enjoyed its sabbaths; all the days of the desolation it kept sabbath--to the fulness of seventy years.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, at the completion of the word of Jehovah in the mouth of Jeremiah, hath Jehovah waked up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, and he causeth an intimation to pass over into all his kingdom, and also in writing, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `Thus said Cyrus king of Persia, All kingdoms of the earth hath Jehovah, God of the heavens, given to me, and He hath laid a charge on me to build to Him a house in Jerusalem, that [is] in Judah; who is among you of all His people? Jehovah his God [is] with him, and he doth go up.'</p>

</body>
</html>