<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Abijah lieth with his fathers, and they bury him in the city of David, and reign doth Asa his son in his stead: in his days was the land quiet ten years.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Asa doth that which is good, and that which is right, in the eyes of Jehovah his God,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and turneth aside the altars of the stranger, and the high places, and breaketh the standing-pillars, and cutteth down the shrines,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and saith to Judah to seek Jehovah, God of their fathers, and to do the law and the command;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and he turneth aside out of all cities of Judah the high places and the images, and the kingdom is quiet before him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he buildeth cities of bulwarks in Judah, for the land hath quiet, and there is no war with him in these years, because Jehovah hath given rest to him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he saith to Judah, `Let us build these cities, and compass [them] with wall, and towers, two-leaved doors, and bars, while the land [is] before us, because we have sought Jehovah our God, we have sought, and He giveth rest to us round about;' and they build and prosper.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there is to Asa a force bearing target and spear, out of Judah three hundred thousand, and out of Benjamin, bearing shield and treading bow, two hundred and eighty thousand: all these [are] mighty of valour.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And come out unto them doth Zerah the Cushite with a force of a thousand thousand, and chariots three hundred, and he cometh in unto Mareshah,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and Asa goeth out before him, and they set battle in array in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Asa calleth unto Jehovah his God, and saith, `Jehovah! it is nothing with Thee to help, between the mighty and those who have no power; help us, O Jehovah, our God, for on Thee we have leant, and in Thy name we have come against this multitude; O Jehovah, our God thou [art]; let him not prevail with Thee--mortal man!</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jehovah smiteth the Cushim before Asa, and before Judah, and the Cushim flee,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and Asa and the people who [are] with him pursue them even to Gerar, and there fall of the Cushim, for they have no preserving, because they have been broken before Jehovah, and before His camp; and they bear away very much spoil,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and smite all the cities round about Gerar, for a fear of Jehovah hath been upon them, and they spoil all the cities, for abundant spoil hath been in them;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and also tents of cattle they have smitten, and they capture sheep in abundance, and camels, and turn back to Jerusalem.</p>

</body>
</html>