<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Solomon beginneth to build the house of Jehovah, in Jerusalem, in the mount of Moriah, where He appeared to David his father, in the place that David had prepared, in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he beginneth to build in the second [day], in the second month, in the fourth year of his reign.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And [in] these hath Solomon been instructed to build the house of God: The length [in] cubits by the former measure [is] sixty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As to the porch that [is] on the front, the length [is] by the front of the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the height a hundred and twenty, and he overlayeth it within with pure gold.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the large house he hath covered with fir-trees, and he doth cover it with good gold, and causeth to ascend on it palms and chains,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and he overlayeth the house with precious stone for beauty, and the gold [is] gold of Parvaim,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and he covereth the house, the beams, the thresholds, and its walls, and its doors, with gold, and hath graved cherubs on the walls.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he maketh the most holy house: its length [is] by the front of the breadth of the house twenty cubits, and its breadth twenty cubits, and he covereth it with good gold, to six hundred talents;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the weight of the nails [is] fifty shekels of gold, and the upper chambers he hath covered with gold.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he maketh in the most holy house two cherubs, image work, and he overlayeth them with gold;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> as to the wings of the cherubs, their length [is] twenty cubits, the wing of the one [is] five cubits, touching the wall of the house, and the other wing [is] five cubits, touching the wing of the other cherub.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the wing of the other cherub [is] five cubits touching the wall of the house, and the other wing [is] five cubits, adhering to the wing of the other cherub.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The wings of these cherubs are spreading forth twenty cubits, and they are standing on their feet and their faces [are] inward.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he maketh the vail of blue, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen, and causeth cherubs to go up on it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he maketh at the front of the house two pillars, thirty and five cubits in length, and the ornament that [is] on their heads five cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he maketh chains in the oracle, and putteth on the heads of the pillars, and maketh a hundred pomegranates, and putteth on the chains.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he raiseth up the pillars on the front of the temple, one on the right, and one on the left, and calleth the name of that on the right Jachin, and the name of that on the left Boaz.</p>

</body>
</html>