<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehoshaphat his son reigneth in his stead, and he strengtheneth himself against Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and putteth a force in all the fenced cities of Judah, and putteth garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim that Asa his father had captured.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jehovah is with Jehoshaphat, for he hath walked in the first ways of David his father, and hath not sought to Baalim,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> for to the God of his father he hath sought, and in His commands he hath walked, and not according to the work of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah doth establish the kingdom in his hand, and all Judah give a present to Jehoshaphat, and he hath riches and honour in abundance,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and his heart is high in the ways of Jehovah, and again he hath turned aside the high places and the shrines out of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And in the third year of his reign he hath sent for his heads, for Ben-Hail, and for Obadiah, and for Zechariah, and for Nethaneel, and for Michaiah, to teach in cities of Judah,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and with them the Levites, Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijath, and Tob-Adonijah, the Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they teach in Judah, and with them [is] the Book of the Law of Jehovah, and they go round about into all cities of Judah, and teach among the people.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And here is a fear of Jehovah on all kingdoms of the lands that [are] round about Judah, and they have not fought with Jehoshaphat;</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and of the Philistines they are bringing in to Jehoshaphat a present, and tribute silver; also, the Arabians are bringing to him a flock, rams seven thousand an seven hundred, and he-goats seven thousand and seven hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jehoshaphat is going on and becoming very great, and he buildeth in Judah palaces and cities of store,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and he hath much work in cities of Judah; and men of war, mighty of valour, [are] in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And these [are] their numbers, for the house of their fathers: Of Judah, heads of thousands, Adnah the head, and with him mighty ones of valour, three hundred chiefs.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And at his hand [is] Jehohanan the head, and with him two hundred and eighty chiefs.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And at his hand [is] Amasiah son of Zichri, who is willingly offering himself to Jehovah, and with him two hundred chiefs, mighty of valour.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And of Benjamin: mighty of valour, Eliada, and with him, armed with bow and shield, two hundred chiefs.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And at his hand [is] Jehozabad, and with him a hundred and eighty chiefs, armed ones of the host.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These [are] those serving the king, apart from those whom the king put in the cities of fortress, in all Judah.</p>

</body>
</html>