<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And all the people of Judah take Uzziah (and he [is] a son of sixteen years), and cause him to reign instead of his father Amaziah.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He hath built Eloth, and restoreth it to Judah after the king's lying with his fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A son of sixteen years [is] Uzziah in his reigning, and fifty and two years he hath reigned in Jerusalem, and the name of his mother [is] Jecholiah of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he doth that which is right in the eyes of Jehovah, according to all that Amaziah his father did,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and he is as one seeking God in the days of Zechariah who hath understanding in visions of God: and in the days of his seeking Jehovah, God hath caused him to prosper.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he goeth forth, and fighteth with the Philistines, and breaketh down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod, and buildeth cities about Ashdod, and among the Philistines.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And God helpeth him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians who are dwelling in Gur-Baal and the Mehunim.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the Ammonites give a present to Uzziah, and his name goeth unto the entering in of Egypt, for he strengthened himself greatly.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Uzziah buildeth towers in Jerusalem, by the gate of the corner, and by the gate of the valley, and by the angle, and strengtheneth them;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and he buildeth towers in the wilderness, and diggeth many wells, for he had much cattle, both in the low country and in the plain, husbandmen and vine-dressers in the mountains, and in Carmel; for he was a lover of the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Uzziah hath a force, making war, going forth to the host, by troops, in the number of their reckoning by the hand of Jeiel the scribe and Masseiah the officer, by the hand of Hananiah [one] of the heads of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The whole number of heads of the fathers of the mighty ones of valour [is] two thousand and six hundred;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and by their hand [is] the force of the host, three hundred thousand, and seven thousand, and five hundred warriors, with mighty power to give help to the king against the enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Uzziah prepareth for them, for all the host, shields, and spears, and helmets, and coats of mail, and bows, even to stones of the slings.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he maketh in Jerusalem inventions--a device of an inventor--to be on the towers, and on the corners, to shoot with arrows and with great stones, and his name goeth out unto a distance, for he hath been wonderfully helped till that he hath been strong.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And at his being strong his heart hath been high unto destruction, and he trespasseth against Jehovah his God, and goeth in unto the temple of Jehovah to make perfume upon the altar of perfume.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Azariah the priest goeth in after him, and with him priests of Jehovah eighty, sons of valour,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and they stand up against Uzziah the king, and say to him, `Not for thee, O Uzziah, to make perfume to Jehovah, but for priests, sons of Aaron, who are sanctified to make perfume; go forth from the sanctuary, for thou hast trespassed, and [it is] not to thee for honour from Jehovah God.'</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Uzziah is wroth, and in his hand [is] a censer to make perfume, and in his being wroth with the priests--the leprosy hath risen in his forehead, before the priests, in the house of Jehovah, from beside the altar of perfume.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Azariah the head priest looketh unto him, and all the priests, and lo, he [is] leprous in his forehead, and they hasten him thence, and also he himself hath hastened to go out, for Jehovah hath plagued him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Uzziah the king is a leper unto the day of his death, and inhabiteth a separate house--a leper, for he hath been cut off from the house of Jehovah, and Jotham his son [is] over the house of the king, judging the people of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the rest of the matters of Uzziah, the first and the last, hath Isaiah son of Amoz the prophet written;</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and Uzziah lieth with his fathers, and they bury him with his fathers, in the field of the burying-place that the kings have, for they said, `He [is] a leper;' and reign doth Jotham his son in his stead.</p>

</body>
</html>