<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezra 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezra 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And these [are] sons of the province who are going up--of the captives of the removal that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon removed to Babylon, and they turn back to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his city--</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> who have come in with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah: The number of the men of the people of Israel:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sons of Parosh, two thousand a hundred seventy and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sons of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sons of Arah, seven hundred five and seventy.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sons of Pahath-Moab, of the sons of Jeshua, Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Sons of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Sons of Zattu, nine hundred and forty and five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Sons of Zaccai, seven hundred and sixty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Sons of Bani, six hundred forty and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Sons of Azgad, a thousand two hundred twenty and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and six.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Sons of Bigvai, two thousand fifty and six.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Sons of Adin, four hundred fifty and four.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Sons of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty and three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Sons of Jorah, a hundred and twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Sons of Hashum, two hundred twenty and three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Sons of Gibbar, ninety and five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Sons of Beth-Lehem, a hundred twenty and three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Men of Netophah, fifty and six.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Men of Anathoth, a hundred twenty and eight.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Sons of Azmaveth, forty and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Sons of Kirjath-Arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty and three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Sons of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Men of Michmas, a hundred twenty and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Men of Beth-El and Ai, two hundred twenty and three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Sons of Nebo, fifty and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Sons of Magbish, a hundred fifty and six.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Sons of another Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Sons of Harim, three hundred and twenty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Sons of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Sons of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred and thirty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The Priests: sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Sons of Imner, a thousand fifty and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Sons of Pashhur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Sons of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The Levites; sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodaviah, seventy and four.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The singers: sons of Asaph, a hundred twenty and eight.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Sons of the gatekeepers; sons of Shallum, sons of Ater, sons of Talmon, sons of Akkub, sons of Hatita, sons of Shobai, the whole [are] a hundred thirty and nine.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> The Nethinim: sons of Ziha, sons of Hasupha, sons of Tabbaoth,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Sons of Keros, sons of Siaha, sons of Padon,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Sons of Lebanah, sons of Hagabah, sons of Akkub,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Sons of Hagab, sons of Shalmai, sons of Hanan,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Sons of Giddel, sons of Gahar, sons of Reaiah,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Sons of Rezin, sons of Nekoda, sons of Gazzam,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Sons of Uzza, sons of Paseah, sons of Besai,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Sons of Asnah, sons of Mehunim, sons of Nephusim,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Sons of Bakbuk, sons of Hakupha, sons of Harhur,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Sons of Bazluth, sons of Mehida, sons of Harsha,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Sons of Barkos, sons of Sisera, sons of Thamah,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Sons of Neziah, sons of Hatipha.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Sons of the servants of Solomon: sons of Sotai, sons of Sophereth, sons of Peruda,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Sons of Jaalah, sons of Darkon, sons of Giddel,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Sons of Shephatiah, sons of Hattil, sons of Pochereth of Zebaim, sons of Ami.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> All the Nethinim, and the sons of the servants of Solomon [are] three hundred ninety and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And these [are] those going up from Tel-Melah, Tel-Harsa, Cherub, Addan, Immer, and they have not been able to declare the house of their fathers, and their seed, whether they [are] of Israel:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> sons of Delaiah, sons of Tobiah, sons of Nekoda, six hundred fifty and two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And of the sons of the priests: sons of Habaiah, sons of Koz, sons of Barzillai (who took from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite a wife, and is called by their name;)</p>

<p><a id="c2_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> these have sought their register among those reckoning themselves by genealogy, and they have not been found, and they are redeemed from the priesthood,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> and the Tirshatha saith to them, that they eat not of the most holy things till the standing up of a priest with Urim and with Thummim.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> All the assembly together [is] four myriad two thousand three hundred sixty,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> apart from their servants and their handmaids; these [are] seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and of them [are] singers and songstresses two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> Their horses [are] seven hundred thirty and six, their mules, two hundred forty and five,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> their camels, four hundred thirty and five, asses, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> And some of the heads of the fathers in their coming in to the house of Jehovah that [is] in Jerusalem, have offered willingly for the house of God, to establish it on its base;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> according to their power they have given to the treasure of the work; of gold, drams six myriads and a thousand, and of silver, pounds five thousand, and of priests' coats, a hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> And the priests dwell, and the Levites, and of the people, and the singers, and the gatekeepers, and the Nethinim, in their cities; even all Israel in their cities.</p>

</body>
</html>