<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nehemiah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nehemiah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass, when it hath been heard by Sanballat, and Tobiah, and by Geshem the Arabian, and by the rest of our enemies, that I have builded the wall, and there hath not been left in it a breach, (also, till that time the doors Ihad not set up in the gates,)</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that Sanballat sendeth, also Geshem, unto me, saying, `Come and we meet together in the villages, in the valley of Ono;' and they are thinking to do to me evil.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I send unto them messengers, saying, `A great work I am doing, and I am not able to come down; why doth the work cease when I let it alone, and have come down unto you?'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and they send unto me, according to this word, four times, and I return them [word] according to this word.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Sanballat sendeth unto me, according to this word, a fifth time, his servant, and an open letter in his hand;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> it is written in it, `Among the nations it hath been heard, and Gashmu is saying: Thou and the Jews are thinking to rebel, therefore thou art building the wall, and thou hast been to them for a king--according to these words!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And also, prophets thou hast appointed to call for thee in Jerusalem, saying, A king [is] in Judah, and now it is heard by the king according to these words; and now come, and we take counsel together.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I send unto him, saying, `It hath not been according to these words that thou art saying, for from thine own heart thou art devising them;'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for all of them are making us afraid, saying, `Their hands are too feeble for the work, and it is not done;' and now, strengthen Thou my hands.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I have entered the house of Shemaiah son of Delaiah, son of Mehetabeel--and he is restrained--and he saith, `Let us meet at the house of God, at the inside of the temple, and we shut the doors of the temple, for they are coming in to slay thee--yea, by night they are coming in to slay thee.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I say, `A man such as I--doth he flee? and who as I, that doth go in unto the temple, and live? --I do not go in.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I discern, and lo, God hath not sent him, for in the prophecy he hath spoken unto me both Tobiah and Sanballat hired him,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> so that he [is] an hireling, that I may fear and do so, and I had sinned, and it had been to them for an evil name that they may reproach me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Be mindful, O my God, of Tobiah, and of Sanballat, according to these his works, and also, of Noadiah the prophetess, and of the rest of the prophets who have been making me afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the wall is completed in the twenty and fifth of Elul, on the fifty and second day;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and it cometh to pass, when all our enemies have heard, and all the nations who are round about us see, that they fall greatly in their own eyes, and know that by our God hath this work been done.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Also, in those days the freemen of Judah are multiplying their letters going unto Tobiah, and those of Tobiah are coming in unto them;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for many in Judah are sworn to him, for he [is] son-in-law to Shechaniah son of Arah, and Jehohanan his son hath taken the daughter of Meshullam son of Berechiah;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> also, his good deeds they have been saying before me, and my words they have been taking out to him; letters hath Tobiah sent to make me afraid.</p>

</body>
</html>