<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nehemiah 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nehemiah 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the heads of the people dwell in Jerusalem, and the rest of the people have caused to fall lots to bring in one out of ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine parts in the cities,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and the people give a blessing to all the men who are offering themselves willingly to dwell in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And these [are] heads of the province who have dwelt in Jerusalem, and in cities of Judah, they have dwelt each in his possession in their cities; Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the Nethinim, and the sons of the servants of Solomon.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And in Jerusalem have dwelt of the sons of Judah, and of the sons of Benjamin. Of the sons of Judah: Athaiah son of Uzziah, son of Zechariah, son of Amariah, son of Shephatiah, son of Mahalaleel, of the sons of Perez;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and Masseiah son of Baruch, son of Col-Hozeh, son of Hazaiah, son of Adaiah, son of Joiarib, son of Zechariah, son of Shiloni;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> all the sons of Perez who are dwelling in Jerusalem [are] four hundred sixty and eight, men of valour.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And these [are] sons of Benjamin: Sallu son of Meshullam, son of Joed, son of Pedaiah, son of Kolaiah, son of Maaseiah, son of Ithiel, son of Jesaiah;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and after him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty and eight.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Joel son of Zichri [is] inspector over them, and Judah son of Senuah [is] over the city--second.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Of the priests: Jedaiah son of Joiarib, Jachin,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Seraiah son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, leader of the house of God,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and their brethren doing the work of the house [are] eight hundred twenty and two; and Adaiah son of Jeroham, son of Pelaliah, son of Amzi, son of Zechariah, son of Pashhur, son of Malchiah,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and his brethren, heads of fathers, two hundred forty and two; and Amashsai son of Azareel, son of Ahazai, son of Meshillemoth, son of Immer,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and their brethren, mighty of valour, a hundred twenty and eight; and an inspector over them [is] Zabdiel, son of [one of] the great men.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And of the Levites: Shemaiah son of Hashub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, son of Bunni,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and Shabbethai, and Jozabad, [are] over the outward work of the house of God, of the heads of the Levites,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and Mattaniah son of Micha, son of Zabdi, son of Asaph, [is] head--at the commencement he giveth thanks in prayer; and Bakbukiah [is] second among his brethren, and Abda son of Shammua, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> All the Levites, in the holy city, [are] two hundred eighty and four.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the gatekeepers, Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren, those watching at the gates, [are] a hundred seventy and two.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the rest of Israel, of the priests, of the Levites, [are] in all cities of Judah, each in his inheritance;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and the Nethinim are dwelling in Ophel, and Ziha and Gishpa [are] over the Nethinim.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem [is] Uzzi son of Bani, son of Hashabiah, son of Mattaniah, son of Micha: of the sons of Asaph, the singers [are] over-against the work of the house of God,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for the command of the king [is] upon them, and support [is] for the singers, a matter of a day in its day.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Pethahiah son of Meshezabeel, of the sons of Zerah, son of Judah, [is] by the hand of the king, for every matter of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And at the villages with their fields, of the sons of Judah there have dwelt, in Kirjath-Arba and its small towns, and in Dibon and its small towns, and in Jekabzeel and its villages,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and in Jeshua, and in Moladah, and in Beth-Phelet,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and in Hazar-Shaul, and in Beer-Sheba and its small towns,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and in Ziklag, and in Mekonah and in its small towns,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and En-Rimmon, and in Zareah, and in Jarmuth,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and its fields, Azekah and its small towns; and they encamp from Beer-Sheba unto the valley of Hinnom.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And sons of Benjamin [are] at Geba, Michmash, and Aija, and Beth-El, and its small towns,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Lod, and Ono, the valley of the artificers.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And of the Levites, the courses of Judah [are] for Benjamin.</p>

</body>
</html>