<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Also--to-day [is] my complaint bitter, My hand hath been heavy because of my sighing.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O that I had known--and I find Him, I come in unto His seat,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I arrange before Him the cause, And my mouth fill [with] arguments.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I know the words He doth answer me, And understand what He saith to me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the abundance of power doth He strive with me? No! surely He putteth [it] in me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There the upright doth reason with Him, And I escape for ever from my judge.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lo, forward I go--and He is not, And backward--and I perceive him not.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> [To] the left in His working--and I see not, He is covered [on] the right, and I behold not.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For He hath known the way with me, He hath tried me--as gold I go forth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> On His step hath my foot laid hold, His way I have kept, and turn not aside,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The command of His lips, and I depart not. Above my allotted portion I have laid up The sayings of His mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And He [is] in one [mind], And who doth turn Him back? And His soul hath desired-- and He doth [it].</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For He doth complete my portion, And many such things [are] with Him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, from His presence I am troubled, I consider, and am afraid of Him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And God hath made my heart soft, And the Mighty hath troubled me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I have not been cut off before darkness, And before me He covered thick darkness.</p>

</body>
</html>