<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this hath Job opened his mouth, and revileth his day.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Job answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the day perish in which I am born, And the night that hath said: `A man-child hath been conceived.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That day--let it be darkness, Let not God require it from above, Nor let light shine upon it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let darkness and death-shade redeem it, Let a cloud tabernacle upon it, Let them terrify it as the most bitter of days.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That night--let thick darkness take it, Let it not be united to days of the year, Into the number of months let it not come.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo! that night--let it be gloomy, Let no singing come into it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let the cursers of day mark it, Who are ready to wake up Leviathan.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let the stars of its twilight be dark, Let it wait for light, and there is none, And let it not look on the eyelids of the dawn.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because it hath not shut the doors Of the womb that was mine! And hide misery from mine eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why from the womb do I not die? From the belly I have come forth and gasp!</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore have knees been before me? And what [are] breasts, that I suck?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For now, I have lain down, and am quiet, I have slept--then there is rest to me,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> With kings and counsellors of earth, These building wastes for themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Or with princes--they have gold, They are filling their houses [with] silver.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> (Or as a hidden abortion I am not, As infants--they have not seen light.)</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There the wicked have ceased troubling, And there rest do the wearied in power.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Together prisoners have been at ease, They have not heard the voice of an exactor,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Small and great [are] there the same. And a servant [is] free from his lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Why giveth He to the miserable light, and life to the bitter soul?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Who are waiting for death, and it is not, And they seek it above hid treasures.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Who are glad--unto joy, They rejoice when they find a grave.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> To a man whose way hath been hidden, And whom God doth shut up?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For before my food, my sighing cometh, And poured out as waters [are] my roarings.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For a fear I feared and it meeteth me, And what I was afraid of doth come to me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I was not safe--nor was I quiet--Nor was I at rest--and trouble cometh!</p>

</body>
</html>