<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job addeth to lift up his simile, and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God liveth! He turned aside my judgment, And the Mighty--He made my soul bitter.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For all the while my breath [is] in me, And the spirit of God in my nostrils.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My lips do not speak perverseness, And my tongue doth not utter deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Pollution to me--if I justify you, Till I expire I turn not aside mine integrity from me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> On my righteousness I have laid hold, And I do not let it go, My heart doth not reproach me while I live.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As the wicked is my enemy, And my withstander as the perverse.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For what [is] the hope of the profane, When He doth cut off? When God doth cast off his soul?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> His cry doth God hear, When distress cometh on him?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> On the Mighty doth he delight himself? Call God at all times?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I shew you by the hand of God, That which [is] with the Mighty I hide not.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Lo, ye--all of you--have seen, And why [is] this--ye are altogether vain?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This [is] the portion of wicked man with God, And the inheritance of terrible ones From the Mighty they receive.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If his sons multiply--for them [is] a sword. And his offspring [are] not satisfied [with] bread.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> His remnant in death are buried, And his widows do not weep.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If he heap up as dust silver, And as clay prepare clothing,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He prepareth--and the righteous putteth [it] on, And the silver the innocent doth apportion.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He hath built as a moth his house, And as a booth a watchman hath made.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Rich he lieth down, and he is not gathered, His eyes he hath opened, and he is not.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Overtake him as waters do terrors, By night stolen him away hath a whirlwind.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Take him up doth an east wind, and he goeth, And it frighteneth him from his place,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And it casteth at him, and doth not spare, From its hand he diligently fleeth.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> It clappeth at him its hands, And it hisseth at him from his place.</p>

</body>
</html>