<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Zophar the Naamathite answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Is a multitude of words not answered? And is a man of lips justified?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thy devices make men keep silent, Thou scornest, and none is causing blushing!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou sayest, `Pure [is] my discourse, And clean I have been in Thine eyes.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And yet, O that God had spoken! And doth open His lips with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And declare to thee secrets of wisdom, For counsel hath foldings. And know thou that God forgetteth for thee, [Some] of thine iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> By searching dost thou find out God? Unto perfection find out the Mighty One?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Heights of the heavens! --what dost thou? Deeper than Sheol! --what knowest thou?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Longer than earth [is] its measure, And broader than the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If He pass on, and shut up, and assemble, Who then dost reverse it?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he hath known men of vanity, And He seeth iniquity, And one doth not consider [it]!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And empty man is bold, And the colt of a wild ass man is born.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If thou--thou hast prepared thy heart, And hast spread out unto Him thy hands,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If iniquity [is] in thy hand, put it far off, And let not perverseness dwell in thy tents.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For then thou liftest up thy face from blemish, And thou hast been firm, and fearest not.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For thou dost forget misery, As waters passed away thou rememberest.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And above the noon doth age rise, Thou fliest--as the morning thou art.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And thou hast trusted because their is hope, And searched--in confidence thou liest down,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And thou hast rested, And none is causing trembling, And many have entreated thy face;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the eyes of the wicked are consumed, And refuge hath perished from them, And their hope [is] a breathing out of soul!</p>

</body>
</html>