<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Truly--ye [are] the people, And with you doth wisdom die.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I also have a heart like you, I am not fallen more than you, And with whom is there not like these?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A laughter to his friend I am: `He calleth to God, and He answereth him,' A laughter [is] the perfect righteous one.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A torch--despised in the thoughts of the secure Is prepared for those sliding with the feet.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> At peace are the tents of spoilers, And those provoking God have confidence, He into whose hand God hath brought.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And yet, ask, I pray thee, [One of] the beasts, and it doth shew thee, And a fowl of the heavens, And it doth declare to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Or talk to the earth, and it sheweth thee, And fishes of the sea recount to thee:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `Who hath not known in all these, That the hand of Jehovah hath done this?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In whose hand [is] the breath of every living thing, And the spirit of all flesh of man.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Doth not the ear try words? And the palate taste food for itself?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> With the very aged [is] wisdom, And [with] length of days understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With Him [are] wisdom and might, To him [are] counsel and understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Lo, He breaketh down, and it is not built up, He shutteth against a man, And it is not opened.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lo, He keepeth in the waters, and they are dried up, And he sendeth them forth, And they overturn the land.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With Him [are] strength and wisdom, His the deceived and deceiver.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Causing counsellors to go away a spoil, And judges He maketh foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The bands of kings He hath opened, And He bindeth a girdle on their loins.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Causing ministers to go away a spoil And strong ones He overthroweth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Turning aside the lip of the stedfast, And the reason of the aged He taketh away.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Pouring contempt upon princes, And the girdle of the mighty He made feeble.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Removing deep things out of darkness, And He bringeth out to light death-shade.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Magnifying the nations, and He destroyeth them, Spreading out the nations, and He quieteth them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Turning aside the heart Of the heads of the people of the land, And he causeth them to wander In vacancy--no way!</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They feel darkness, and not light, He causeth them to wander as a drunkard.</p>

</body>
</html>