<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Also, at this my heart trembleth, And it moveth from its place.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hearken diligently to the trembling of His voice, Yea, the sound from His mouth goeth forth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Under the whole heavens He directeth it, And its light [is] over the skirts of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> After it roar doth a voice--He thundereth with the voice of His excellency, And He doth not hold them back, When His voice is heard.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God thundereth with His voice wonderfully, Doing great things and we know not.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For to snow He saith, `Be [on] the earth.' And the small rain and great rain of His power.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Into the hand of every man he sealeth, For the knowledge by all men of His work.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And enter doth the beast into covert, And in its habitations it doth continue.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the inner chamber cometh a hurricane, And from scatterings winds--cold,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> From the breath of God is frost given, And the breadth of waters is straitened,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yea, by filling He doth press out a cloud, Scatter a cloud doth His light.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it is turning itself round by His counsels, For their doing all He commandeth them, On the face of the habitable earth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whether for a rod, or for His land, Or for kindness--He doth cause it to come.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Hear this, O Job, Stand and consider the wonders of God.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Dost thou know when God doth place them, And caused to shine the light of His cloud?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Dost thou know the balancings of a cloud? The wonders of the Perfect in knowledge?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How thy garments [are] warm, In the quieting of the earth from the south?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou hast made an expanse with Him For the clouds--strong as a hard mirror!</p>

<p><a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let us know what we say to Him, We set not in array because of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Is it declared to Him that I speak? If a man hath spoken, surely he is swallowed up.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And now, they have not seen the light, Bright it [is] in the clouds, And the wind hath passed by and cleanseth them.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> From the golden north it cometh, Beside God [is] fearful honour.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The Mighty! we have not found Him out, High in power and judgment, He doth not answer! And abundant in righteousness,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore do men fear Him, He seeth not any of the wise of heart.</p>

</body>
</html>