<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Elihu addeth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Honour me a little, and I shew thee, That yet for God [are] words.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I lift up my knowledge from afar, And to my Maker I ascribe righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For, truly, my words [are] not false, The perfect in knowledge [is] with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lo, God [is] mighty, and despiseth not, Mighty [in] power [and] heart.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He reviveth not the wicked, And the judgment of the poor appointeth;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He withdraweth not from the righteous His eyes, And [from] kings on the throne, And causeth them to sit for ever, and they are high,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And if prisoners in fetters They are captured with cords of affliction,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then He declareth to them their work, And their transgressions, Because they have become mighty,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And He uncovereth their ear for instruction, And saith that they turn back from iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they do hear and serve, They complete their days in good, And their years in pleasantness.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And if they do not hearken, By the dart they pass away, And expire without knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the profane in heart set the face, They cry not when He hath bound them.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Their soul dieth in youth, And their life among the defiled.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He draweth out the afflicted in his affliction, And uncovereth in oppression their ear.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And also He moved thee from a strait place, [To] a broad place--no straitness under it, And the sitting beyond of thy table Hath been full of fatness.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the judgment of the wicked thou hast fulfilled, Judgment and justice are upheld-- because of fury,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lest He move thee with a stroke, And the abundance of an atonement turn thee not aside.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Doth He value thy riches? He hath gold, and all the forces of power.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Desire not the night, For the going up of peoples in their stead.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Take heed--do not turn unto iniquity, For on this thou hast fixed Rather than [on] affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Lo, God doth sit on high by His power, Who [is] like Him--a teacher?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who hath appointed unto Him his way? And who said, `Thou hast done iniquity?'</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Remember that thou magnify His work That men have beheld.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All men have looked on it, Man looketh attentively from afar.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Lo, God [is] high, And we know not the number of His years, Yea, there [is] no searching.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> When He doth diminish droppings of the waters, They refine rain according to its vapour,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Which clouds do drop, They distil on man abundantly.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Yea, doth [any] understand The spreadings out of a cloud? The noises of His tabernacle?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Lo, He hath spread over it His light, And the roots of the sea He hath covered,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For by them He doth judge peoples, He giveth food in abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> By two palms He hath covered the light, And layeth a charge over it in meeting,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He sheweth by it [to] his friend substance, Anger against perversity.</p>

</body>
</html>