<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Man, born of woman! Of few days, and full of trouble!</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As a flower he hath gone forth, and is cut off, And he fleeth as a shadow and standeth not.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also--on this Thou hast opened Thine eyes, And dost bring me into judgment with Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who giveth a clean thing out of an unclean? not one.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If determined are his days, The number of his months [are] with Thee, His limit Thou hast made, And he passeth not over;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Look away from off him that he may cease, Till he enjoy as an hireling his day.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For there is of a tree hope, if it be cut down, That again it doth change, That its tender branch doth not cease.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If its root becometh old in the earth, And its stem doth die in the dust,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the fragrance of water it doth flourish, And hath made a crop as a plant.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And a man dieth, and becometh weak, And man expireth, and where [is] he?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Waters have gone away from a sea, And a river becometh waste and dry.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And man hath lain down, and riseth not, Till the wearing out of the heavens they awake not, Nor are roused from their sleep.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O that in Sheol Thou wouldest conceal me, Hide me till the turning of Thine anger, Set for me a limit, and remember me.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If a man dieth--doth he revive? All days of my warfare I wait, till my change come.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou dost call, and I--I answer Thee; To the work of Thy hands Thou hast desire.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now, my steps Thou numberest, Thou dost not watch over my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sealed up in a bag [is] my transgression, And Thou sewest up mine iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And yet, a falling mountain wasteth away, And a rock is removed from its place.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Stones have waters worn away, Their outpourings wash away the dust of earth, And the hope of man Thou hast destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou prevailest [over] him for ever, and he goeth, He is changing his countenance, And Thou sendest him away.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Honoured are his sons, and he knoweth not; And they are little, and he attendeth not to them.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Only--his flesh for him is pained, And his soul for him doth mourn.'</p>

</body>
</html>