<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lo, all--hath mine eye seen, Heard hath mine ear, and it attendeth to it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> According to your knowledge I have known--also I. I am not fallen more than you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yet I for the Mighty One do speak, And to argue for God I delight.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And yet, ye [are] forgers of falsehood, Physicians of nought--all of you,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O that ye would keep perfectly silent, And it would be to you for wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear, I pray you, my argument, And to the pleadings of my lips attend,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For God do ye speak perverseness? And for Him do ye speak deceit?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> His face do ye accept, if for God ye strive?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is [it] good that He doth search you, If, as one mocketh at a man, ye mock at Him?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He doth surely reprove you, if in secret ye accept faces.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Doth not His excellency terrify you? And His dread fall upon you?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Your remembrances [are] similes of ashes, For high places of clay your heights.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Keep silent from me, and I speak, And pass over me doth what?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth? And my soul put in my hand?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lo, He doth slay me--I wait not! Only, my ways unto His face I argue.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Also--He [is] to me for salvation, For the profane cometh not before Him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Hear ye diligently my word, And my declaration with your ears.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lo, I pray you, I have set in order the cause, I have known that I am righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who [is] he that doth strive with me? For now I keep silent and gasp.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Only two things, O God, do with me: Then from Thy face I am not hidden.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thy hand put far off from me, And Thy terror let not terrify me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And call Thou, and I--I answer, Or--I speak, and answer Thou me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> How many iniquities and sins have I? My transgression and my sin let me know.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Why dost Thou hide Thy face? And reckonest me for an enemy to Thee?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A leaf driven away dost Thou terrify? And the dry stubble dost Thou pursue?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For Thou writest against me bitter things, And causest me to possess iniquities of my youth:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And puttest in the stocks my feet, And observest all my paths, On the roots of my feet Thou settest a print,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he, as a rotten thing, weareth away, As a garment hath a moth consumed him.</p>

</body>
</html>