<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answereth Jehovah and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast known that [for] all things Thou art able, And not withheld from Thee is [any] device:</p>

<p><a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> `Who [is] this, hiding counsel without knowledge?' Therefore, I have declared, and understand not, Too wonderful for me, and I know not.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `Hear, I pray thee, and I--I do speak, I ask thee, and cause thou me to know.'</p>

<p><a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By the hearing of the ear I heard Thee, And now mine eye hath seen Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore do I loathe [it], And I have repented on dust and ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it cometh to pass after Jehovah's speaking these words unto Job, that Jehovah saith unto Eliphaz the Temanite, `Burned hath Mine anger against thee, and against thy two friends, because ye have not spoken concerning Me rightly, like My servant Job.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And now, take to you seven bullocks and seven rams, and go ye unto My servant Job, and ye have caused a burnt-offering to ascend for you; and Job My servant doth pray for you, for surely his face I accept, so as not to do with you folly, becauseye have not spoken concerning Me rightly, like My servant Job.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they go--Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, Zophar the Naamathite--and do as Jehovah hath spoken unto them; and Jehovah doth accept the face of Job.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jehovah hath turned [to] the captivity of Job in his praying for his friends, and Jehovah doth add [to] all that Job hath--to double.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And come unto him do all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all his former acquaintances, and they eat bread with him in his house, and bemoan him, and comfort him concerning all the evil that Jehovah had brought upon him, and they gave to him each one kesitah, and each one ring of gold.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jehovah hath blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning, and he hath fourteen thousand of a flock, and six thousand camels, and a thousand pairs of oxen, and a thousand she-asses.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he hath seven sons and three daughters;</p>

<p><a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and he calleth the name of the one Jemima, and the name of the second Kezia, and the name of the third Keren-Happuch.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And there have not been found women fair as the daughters of Job in all the land, and their father doth give to them an inheritance in the midst of their brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Job liveth after this a hundred and forty years, and seeth his sons, and his sons' sons, four generations;</p>

<p><a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and Job dieth, aged and satisfied [with] days.</p>

</body>
</html>