<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Eliphaz the Temanite answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hath one tried a word with thee? --Thou art weary! And to keep in words who is able?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lo, thou hast instructed many, And feeble hands thou makest strong.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The stumbling one do thy words raise up, And bowing knees thou dost strengthen.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now, it cometh in unto thee, And thou art weary; It striketh unto thee, and thou art troubled.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Is not thy reverence thy confidence? Thy hope--the perfection of thy ways?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember, I pray thee, Who, being innocent, hath perished? And where have the upright been cut off?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As I have seen--ploughers of iniquity, And sowers of misery, reap it!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the breath of God they perish, And from the spirit of His anger consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The roaring of a lion, And the voice of a fierce lion, And teeth of young lions have been broken.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> An old lion is perishing without prey, And the whelps of the lioness do separate.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And unto me a thing is secretly brought, And receive doth mine ear a little of it.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In thoughts from visions of the night, In the falling of deep sleep on men,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Fear hath met me, and trembling, And the multitude of my bones caused to fear.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And a spirit before my face doth pass, Stand up doth the hair of my flesh;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It standeth, and I discern not its aspect, A similitude [is] over-against mine eyes, Silence! and a voice I hear:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `Is mortal man than God more righteous? Than his Maker is a man cleaner?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lo, in His servants He putteth no credence, Nor in His messengers setteth praise.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also--the inhabitants of houses of clay, (Whose foundation [is] in the dust, They bruise them before a moth.)</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> From morning to evening are beaten down, Without any regarding, for ever they perish.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Hath not their excellency been removed with them? They die, and not in wisdom!</p>

</body>
</html>