<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Truly I have known that [it is] so, And what--is man righteous with God?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If he delight to strive with Him--He doth not answer him one of a thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wise in heart and strong in power--Who hath hardened toward Him and is at peace?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who is removing mountains, And they have not known, Who hath overturned them in His anger.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who is shaking earth from its place, And its pillars move themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who is speaking to the sun, and it riseth not, And the stars He sealeth up.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Stretching out the heavens by Himself, And treading on the heights of the sea,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Making Osh, Kesil, and Kimah, And the inner chambers of the south.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Doing great things till there is no searching, And wonderful, till there is no numbering.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, He goeth over by me, and I see not, And He passeth on, and I attend not to it.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Lo, He snatches away, who bringeth it back? Who saith unto Him, `What dost Thou?'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> God doth not turn back His anger, Under Him bowed have proud helpers.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How much less do I--I answer Him? Choose out my words with Him?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whom, though I were righteous, I answer not, For my judgment I make supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Though I had called and He answereth me, I do not believe that He giveth ear [to] my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because with a tempest He bruiseth me, And hath multiplied my wounds for nought.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He permitteth me not to refresh my spirit, But filleth me with bitter things.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If of power, lo, the Strong One; And if of judgment--who doth convene me?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If I be righteous, Mine mouth doth declare me wicked, Perfect I am! --it declareth me perverse.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Perfect I am! --I know not my soul, I despise my life.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It is the same thing, therefore I said, `The perfect and the wicked He is consuming.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If a scourge doth put to death suddenly, At the trial of the innocent He laugheth.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Earth hath been given Into the hand of the wicked one. The face of its judges he covereth, If not--where, who [is] he?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> My days have been swifter than a runner, They have fled, they have not seen good,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They have passed on with ships of reed, As an eagle darteth on food.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Though I say, `I forget my talking, I forsake my corner, and I brighten up!'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I have been afraid of all my griefs, I have known that Thou dost not acquit me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I--I am become wicked; why [is] this? [In] vain I labour.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If I have washed myself with snow-water, And purified with soap my hands,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then in corruption Thou dost dip me, And my garments have abominated me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But if a man like myself--I answer him, We come together into judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If there were between us an umpire, He doth place his hand on us both.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He doth turn aside from off me his rod, And His terror doth not make me afraid,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I speak, and do not fear Him, But I am not right with myself.</p>

</body>
</html>