<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Dost thou draw leviathan with an angle? And with a rope thou lettest down--his tongue?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Dost thou put a reed in his nose? And with a thorn pierce his jaw?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Doth he multiply unto thee supplications? Doth he speak unto thee tender things?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Doth he make a covenant with thee? Dost thou take him for a servant age-during?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Dost thou play with him as a bird? And dost thou bind him for thy damsels?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> (Feast upon him do companions, They divide him among the merchants!)</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Dost thou fill with barbed irons his skin? And with fish-spears his head?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Place on him thy hand, Remember the battle--do not add!</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lo, the hope of him is found a liar, Also at his appearance is not one cast down?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> None so fierce that he doth awake him, And who [is] he before Me stationeth himself?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who hath brought before Me and I repay? Under the whole heavens it [is] mine.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I do not keep silent concerning his parts, And the matter of might, And the grace of his arrangement.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who hath uncovered the face of his clothing? Within his double bridle who doth enter?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The doors of his face who hath opened? Round about his teeth [are] terrible.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A pride--strong ones of shields, Shut up--a close seal.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> One unto another they draw nigh, And air doth not enter between them.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> One unto another they adhere, They stick together and are not separated.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His sneezings cause light to shine, And his eyes [are] as the eyelids of the dawn.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Out of his mouth do flames go, sparks of fire escape.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Out of his nostrils goeth forth smoke, As a blown pot and reeds.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His breath setteth coals on fire, And a flame from his mouth goeth forth.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In his neck lodge doth strength, And before him doth grief exult.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The flakes of his flesh have adhered--Firm upon him--it is not moved.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His heart [is] firm as a stone, Yea, firm as the lower piece.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> From his rising are the mighty afraid, From breakings they keep themselves free.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The sword of his overtaker standeth not, Spear--dart--and lance.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He reckoneth iron as straw, brass as rotten wood.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The son of the bow doth not cause him to flee, Turned by him into stubble are stones of the sling.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> As stubble have darts been reckoned, And he laugheth at the shaking of a javelin.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Under him [are] sharp points of clay, He spreadeth gold on the mire.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He causeth to boil as a pot the deep, The sea he maketh as a pot of ointment.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> After him he causeth a path to shine, One thinketh the deep to be hoary.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> There is not on the earth his like, That is made without terror.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Every high thing he doth see, He [is] king over all sons of pride.</p>

</body>
</html>