<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Zophar the Naamathite answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore my thoughts cause me to answer, And because of my sensations in me.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The chastisement of my shame I hear, And the spirit of mine understanding Doth cause me to answer:</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> This hast thou known from antiquity? Since the placing of man on earth?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That the singing of the wicked [is] short, And the joy of the profane for a moment,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Though his excellency go up to the heavens, And his head against a cloud he strike--</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As his own dung for ever he doth perish, His beholders say: `Where [is] he?'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As a dream he fleeth, and they find him not, And he is driven away as a vision of the night,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The eye hath not seen him, and addeth not. And not again doth his place behold him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His sons do the poor oppress, And his hands give back his wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His bones have been full of his youth, And with him on the dust it lieth down.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Though he doth sweeten evil in his mouth, Doth hide it under his tongue,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hath pity on it, and doth not forsake it, And keep it back in the midst of his palate,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His food in his bowels is turned, The bitterness of asps [is] in his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Wealth he hath swallowed, and doth vomit it. From his belly God driveth it out.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Gall of asps he sucketh, Slay him doth the tongue of a viper.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He looketh not on rivulets, Flowing of brooks of honey and butter.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He is giving back [what] he laboured for, And doth not consume [it]; As a bulwark [is] his exchange, and he exults not.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For he oppressed--he forsook the poor, A house he hath taken violently away, And he doth not build it.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For he hath not known ease in his belly. With his desirable thing he delivereth not himself.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There is not a remnant to his food, Therefore his good doth not stay.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In the fulness of his sufficiency he is straitened. Every perverse hand doth meet him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> It cometh to pass, at the filling of his belly, He sendeth forth against him The fierceness of His anger, Yea, He raineth on him in his eating.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He fleeth from an iron weapon, Pass through him doth a bow of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> One hath drawn, And it cometh out from the body, And a glittering weapon from his gall proceedeth. On him [are] terrors.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All darkness is hid for his treasures, Consume him doth a fire not blown, Broken is the remnant in his tent.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Reveal do the heavens his iniquity, And earth is raising itself against him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Remove doth the increase of his house, Poured forth in a day of His anger.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> This [is] the portion of a wicked man from God. And an inheritance appointed him by God.</p>

</body>
</html>