<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And these three men cease from answering Job, for he [is] righteous in his own eyes,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and burn doth the anger of Elihu son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram; against</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and against his three friends hath his anger burned, because that they have not found an answer, and condemn Job.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Elihu hath waited earnestly beside Job with words, for they are older than he in days.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Elihu seeth that there is no answer in the mouth of the three men, and his anger burneth.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Elihu son of Barachel the Buzite answereth and saith: --Young I [am] in days, and ye [are] age Therefore I have feared, And am afraid of shewing you my opinion.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I said: Days do speak, And multitude of years teach wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Surely a spirit is in man, And the breath of the Mighty One Doth cause them to understand.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The multitude are not wise, Nor do the aged understand judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore I have said: Hearken to me, I do shew my opinion--even I.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, I have waited for your words, I give ear unto your reasons, Till ye search out sayings.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And unto you I attend, And lo, there is no reasoner for Job, [Or] answerer of his sayings among you.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Lest ye say, We have found wisdom, God doth thrust him away, not man.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he hath not set in array words for me, And with your sayings I do not answer him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> (They have broken down, They have not answered again, They removed from themselves words.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I have waited, but they do not speak, For they have stood still, They have not answered any more.)</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I answer, even I--my share, I shew my opinion--even I.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I have been full of words, Distressed me hath the spirit of my breast,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Lo, my breast [is] as wine not opened, Like new bottles it is broken up.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I speak, and there is refreshment to me, I open my lips and answer.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let me not, I pray you, accept the face of any, Nor unto man give flattering titles,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I have not known to give flattering titles, In a little doth my Maker take me away.</p>

</body>
</html>