<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My spirit hath been destroyed, My days extinguished--graves [are] for me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If not--mockeries [are] with me. And in their provocations mine eye lodgeth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Place, I pray Thee, my pledge with Thee; Who is he that striketh hand with me?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For their heart Thou hast hidden From understanding, Therefore Thou dost not exalt them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For a portion he sheweth friendship, And the eyes of his sons are consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he set me up for a proverb of the peoples, And a wonder before them I am.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And dim from sorrow is mine eye, And my members as a shadow all of them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Astonished are the upright at this, And the innocent against the profane Stirreth himself up.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the righteous layeth hold [on] his way, And the clean of hands addeth strength, And- -dumb are they all.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Return, and come in, I pray you, And I find not among you a wise man.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days have passed by, My devices have been broken off, The possessions of my heart!</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Night for day they appoint, Light [is] near because of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I wait--Sheol [is] my house, In darkness I have spread out my couch.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> To corruption I have called: --`Thou [art] my father.' `My mother' and `my sister' --to the worm.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And where [is] now my hope? Yea, my hope, who doth behold it?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> [To] the parts of Sheol ye go down, If together on the dust we may rest.</p>

</body>
</html>