<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah answereth Job out of the whirlwind, and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who [is] this--darkening counsel, By words without knowledge?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Gird, I pray thee, as a man, thy loins, And I ask thee, and cause thou Me to know.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Where wast thou when I founded earth? Declare, if thou hast known understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who placed its measures--if thou knowest? Or who hath stretched out upon it a line?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> On what have its sockets been sunk? Or who hath cast its corner-stone?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the singing together of stars of morning, And all sons of God shout for joy,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And He shutteth up with doors the sea, In its coming forth, from the womb it goeth out.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In My making a cloud its clothing, And thick darkness its swaddling band,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I measure over it My statute, And place bar and doors,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And say, `Hitherto come thou, and add not, And a command is placed On the pride of thy billows.'</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hast thou commanded morning since thy days? Causest thou the dawn to know its place?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> To take hold on the skirts of the earth, And the wicked are shaken out of it,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> It turneth itself as clay of a seal And they station themselves as clothed.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And withheld from the wicked is their light, And the arm lifted up is broken.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hast thou come in to springs of the sea? And in searching the deep Hast thou walked up and down?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Revealed to thee were the gates of death? And the gates of death-shade dost thou see?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou hast understanding, Even unto the broad places of earth! Declare--if thou hast known it all.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Where [is] this--the way light dwelleth? And darkness, where [is] this--its place?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> That thou dost take it unto its boundary, And that thou dost understand The paths of its house.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou hast known--for then thou art born And the number of thy days [are] many!</p>

<p><a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hast thou come in unto the treasure of snow? Yea, the treasures of hail dost thou see?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> That I have kept back for a time of distress, For a day of conflict and battle.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Where [is] this, the way light is apportioned? It scattereth an east wind over the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who hath divided for the flood a conduit? And a way for the lightning of the voices?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> To cause [it] to rain on a land--no man, A wilderness--no man in it.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> To satisfy a desolate and waste place, And to cause to shoot up The produce of the tender grass?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Hath the rain a father? Or who hath begotten the drops of dew?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> From whose belly came forth the ice? And the hoar-frost of the heavens, Who hath begotten it?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> As a stone waters are hidden, And the face of the deep is captured.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Dost thou bind sweet influences of Kimah? Or the attractions of Kesil dost thou open?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Dost thou bring out Mazzaroth in its season? And Aysh for her sons dost thou comfort?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Hast thou known the statutes of heaven? Or dost thou appoint Its dominion in the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Dost thou lift up to the cloud thy voice, And abundance of water doth cover thee?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Dost thou send out lightnings, and they go And say unto thee, `Behold us?'</p>

<p><a id="c38_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Who hath put in the inward parts wisdom? Or who hath given To the covered part understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Who doth number the clouds by wisdom? And the bottles of the heavens, Who doth cause to lie down,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> In the hardening of dust into hardness, And clods cleave together?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Dost thou hunt for a lion prey? And the desire of young lions fulfil?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> When they bow down in dens--Abide in a thicket for a covert?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Who doth prepare for a raven his provision, When his young ones cry unto God? They wander without food.</p>

</body>
</html>