<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Elihu answereth and saith:</p>

<p><a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, O wise men, my words, And, O knowing ones, give ear to me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the ear doth try words, And the palate tasteth to eat.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Judgment let us choose for ourselves, Let us know among ourselves what [is] good.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Job hath said, `I have been righteous, And God hath turned aside my right,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Against my right do I lie? Mortal [is] mine arrow--without transgression.'</p>

<p><a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who [is] a man like Job? He drinketh scoffing like water,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he hath travelled for company With workers of iniquity, So as to go with men of wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he hath said, `It doth not profit a man, When he delighteth himself with God.'</p>

<p><a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, O men of heart, hearken to me; Far be it from God to do wickedness, And [from] the Mighty to do perverseness:</p>

<p><a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the work of man he repayeth to him, And according to the path of each He doth cause him to find.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, truly, God doth not do wickedly, And the Mighty doth not pervert judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who hath inspected for Himself the earth? And who hath placed all the habitable world?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If He doth set on him His heart, His spirit and his breath unto Him He gathereth.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Expire doth all flesh together, And man to dust returneth.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if [there is] understanding, hear this, Give ear to the voice of my words.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yea, doth one hating justice govern? Or the Most Just dost thou condemn?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Who hath said to a king--`Worthless,' Unto princes--`Wicked?'</p>

<p><a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> That hath not accepted the person of princes, Nor hath known the rich before the poor, For a work of His hands [are] all of them.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> [In] a moment they die, and at midnight Shake do people, and they pass away, And they remove the mighty without hand.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For His eyes [are] on the ways of each, And all his steps He doth see.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There is no darkness nor death-shade, For workers of iniquity to be hidden there;</p>

<p><a id="c34_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For He doth not suffer man any more, To go unto God in judgment,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He breaketh the mighty--no searching! And He appointeth others in their stead.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore He knoweth their works, And He hath overturned by night, And they are bruised.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> As wicked He hath stricken them, In the place of beholders.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Because that against right They have turned aside from after Him, And none of His ways have considered wisely,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> To cause to come in unto Him The cry of the poor, And the cry of the afflicted He heareth.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And He giveth rest, and who maketh wrong? And hideth the face, and who beholdeth it? And in reference to a nation and to a man, [It is] the same.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> From the reigning of a profane man, From the snares of a people;</p>

<p><a id="c34_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For unto God hath any said: `I have taken away, I do not corruptly,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Besides [that which] I see, shew Thou me, If iniquity I have done--I do not add?'</p>

<p><a id="c34_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> By thee doth He recompense, That thou hast refused--That thou dost choose, and not I? And what thou hast known, speak.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let men of heart say to me, And a wise man is hearkening to me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Job--not with knowledge doth he speak, And his words [are] not with wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> My Father! let Job be tried--unto victory, Because of answers for men of iniquity,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For he doth add to his sin, Transgression among us he vomiteth, And multiplieth his sayings to God.</p>

</body>
</html>