<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job addeth to lift up his simile, and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who doth make me as [in] months past, As [in] the days of God's preserving me?</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In His causing His lamp to shine on my head, By His light I walk [through] darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As I have been in days of my maturity, And the counsel of God upon my tent.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When yet the Mighty One [is] with me. Round about me--my young ones,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When washing my goings with butter, And the firm rock [is] with me rivulets of oil.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When I go out to the gate by the city, In a broad place I prepare my seat.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Seen me have youths, and they, been hidden, And the aged have risen--they stood up.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Princes have kept in words, And a hand they place on their mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The voice of leaders hath been hidden, And their tongue to the palate hath cleaved.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the ear heard, and declareth me happy, And the eye hath seen, and testifieth [to] me.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I deliver the afflicted who is crying, And the fatherless who hath no helper.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The blessing of the perishing cometh on me, And the heart of the widow I cause to sing.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Righteousness I have put on, and it clotheth me, As a robe and a diadem my justice.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Eyes I have been to the blind, And feet to the lame [am] I.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A father I [am] to the needy, And the cause I have not known I search out.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I break the jaw-teeth of the perverse, And from his teeth I cast away prey.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I say, `With my nest I expire, And as the sand I multiply days.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My root is open unto the waters, And dew doth lodge on my branch.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My honour [is] fresh with me, And my bow in my hand is renewed.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To me they have hearkened, Yea, they wait, and are silent for my counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> After my word they change not, And on them doth my speech drop,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they wait as [for] rain for me, And their mouth they have opened wide [As] for the latter rain.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I laugh unto them--they give no credence, And the light of my face cause not to fall.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I choose their way, and sit head, And I dwell as a king in a troop, When mourners he doth comfort.</p>

</body>
</html>