<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Eliphaz the Temanite answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To God is a man profitable, Because a wise man to himself is profitable?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is it a delight to the Mighty One That thou art righteous? is it gain, That thou makest perfect thy ways?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because of thy reverence Doth He reason [with] thee? He entereth with thee into judgment:</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Is not thy wickedness abundant? And there is no end to thine iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thou takest a pledge of thy brother for nought, And the garments of the naked Thou dost strip off.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou causest not the weary to drink water, And from the hungry thou withholdest bread.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As to the man of arm--he hath the earth, And the accepted of face--he dwelleth in it.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Widows thou hast sent away empty, And the arms of the fatherless are bruised.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore round about thee [are] snares, And trouble thee doth fear suddenly.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Or darkness--thou dost not see, And abundance of waters doth cover thee.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Is not God high [in] heaven? And see the summit of the stars, That they are high.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou hast said, `What--hath God known? Through thickness doth He judge?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thick clouds [are] a secret place to Him, And He doth not see;' And the circle of the heavens He walketh habitually,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The path of the age dost thou observe, That men of iniquity have trodden?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who have been cut down unexpectedly, A flood is poured out on their foundation.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Those saying to God, `Turn aside from us,' And what doth the Mighty One to them?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he hath filled their houses [with] good: (And the counsel of the wicked Hath been far from me.)</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> See do the righteous and they rejoice, And the innocent mocketh at them,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `Surely our substance hath not been cut off, And their excellency hath fire consumed.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Acquaint thyself, I pray thee, with Him, And be at peace, Thereby thine increase [is] good.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Receive, I pray thee, from His mouth a law, And set His sayings in thy heart.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If thou dost return unto the Mighty Thou art built up, Thou puttest iniquity far from thy tents.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So as to set on the dust a defence, And on a rock of the valleys a covering.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the Mighty hath been thy defence, And silver [is] strength to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For then on the Mighty thou delightest thyself, And dost lift up unto God thy face,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thou dost make supplication unto Him, And He doth hear thee, And thy vows thou completest.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And thou decreest a saying, And it is established to thee, And on thy ways hath light shone.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For they have made low, And thou sayest, `Lift up.' And the bowed down of eyes he saveth.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He delivereth the not innocent, Yea, he hath been delivered By the cleanness of thy hands.</p>

</body>
</html>