<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My soul hath been weary of my life, I leave off my talking to myself, I speak in the bitterness of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I say unto God, `Do not condemn me, Let me know why Thou dost strive [with] me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is it good for Thee that Thou dost oppress? That Thou despisest the labour of Thy hands, And on the counsel of the wicked hast shone?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Eyes of flesh hast Thou? As man seeth--seest Thou?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As the days of man [are] Thy days? Thy years as the days of a man?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That Thou inquirest for mine iniquity, And for my sin seekest?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For Thou knowest that I am not wicked, And there is no deliverer from Thy hand.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy hands have taken pains about me, And they make me together round about, And Thou swallowest me up!</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember, I pray Thee, That as clay Thou hast made me, And unto dust Thou dost bring me back.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Dost Thou not as milk pour me out? And as cheese curdle me?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Skin and flesh Thou dost put on me, And with bones and sinews dost fence me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Life and kindness Thou hast done with me. And Thy inspection hath preserved my spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And these Thou hast laid up in Thy heart, I have known that this [is] with Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I sinned, then Thou hast observed me, And from mine iniquity dost not acquit me,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I have done wickedly--woe to me, And righteously--I lift not up my head, Full of shame--then see my affliction,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it riseth--as a lion Thou huntest me. And Thou turnest back--Thou shewest Thyself wonderful in me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou renewest Thy witnesses against me, And dost multiply Thine anger with me, Changes and warfare [are] with me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And why from the womb Hast Thou brought me forth? I expire, and the eye doth not see me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As I had not been, I am, From the belly to the grave I am brought,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Are not my days few? Cease then, and put from me, And I brighten up a little,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Before I go, and return not, Unto a land of darkness and death-shade,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A land of obscurity as thick darkness, Death-shade--and no order, And the shining [is] as thick darkness.'</p>

</body>
</html>