<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hast thou known the time of The bearing of the wild goats of the rock? The bringing forth of hinds thou dost mark!</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou dost number the months they fulfil? And thou hast known the time of their bringing forth!</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They bow down, Their young ones they bring forth safely, Their pangs they cast forth.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Safe are their young ones, They grow up in the field, they have gone out, And have not returned to them.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who hath sent forth the wild ass free? Yea, the bands of the wild ass who opened?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whose house I have made the wilderness, And his dwellings the barren land,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He doth laugh at the multitude of a city, The cries of an exactor he heareth not.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The range of mountains [is] his pasture, And after every green thing he seeketh.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is a Reem willing to serve thee? Doth he lodge by thy crib?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Dost thou bind a Reem in a furrow [with] his thick band? Doth he harrow valleys after thee?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Dost thou trust in him because great [is] his power? And dost thou leave unto him thy labour?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Dost thou trust in him That he doth bring back thy seed? And [to] thy threshing-floor doth gather [it]?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The wing of the rattling ones exulteth, Whether the pinion of the ostrich or hawk.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For she leaveth on the earth her eggs, And on the dust she doth warm them,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And she forgetteth that a foot may press it, And a beast of the field tread it down.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Her young ones it hath hardened without her, In vain [is] her labour without fear.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For God hath caused her to forget wisdom, And He hath not given a portion To her in understanding:</p>

<p><a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> At the time on high she lifteth herself up, She laugheth at the horse and at his rider.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Dost thou give to the horse might? Dost thou clothe his neck [with] a mane?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Dost thou cause him to rush as a locust? The majesty of his snorting [is] terrible.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They dig in a valley, and he rejoiceth in power, He goeth forth to meet the armour.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He laugheth at fear, and is not affrighted, And he turneth not back from the face of the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Against him rattle doth quiver, The flame of a spear, and a halbert.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> With trembling and rage he swalloweth the ground, And remaineth not stedfast Because of the sound of a trumpet.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Among the trumpets he saith, Aha, And from afar he doth smell battle, Roaring of princes and shouting.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> By thine understanding flieth a hawk? Spreadeth he his wings to the south?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> At thy command goeth an eagle up high? Or lifteth he up his nest?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A rock he doth inhabit, Yea, he lodgeth on the tooth of a rock, and fortress.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> From thence he hath sought food, To a far off place his eyes look attentively,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And his brood gulp up blood, And where the pierced [are] --there [is] he!</p>

</body>
</html>