<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And now, laughed at me, Have the younger in days than I, Whose fathers I have loathed to set With the dogs of my flock.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Also--the power of their hands, why [is it] to me? On them hath old age perished.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> With want and with famine gloomy, Those fleeing to a dry place, Formerly a desolation and waste,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Those cropping mallows near a shrub, And broom-roots [is] their food.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> From the midst they are cast out, (They shout against them as a thief),</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In a frightful place of valleys to dwell, Holes of earth and clefts.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Among shrubs they do groan, Under nettles they are gathered together.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Sons of folly--even sons without name, They have been smitten from the land.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now, their song I have been, And I am to them for a byword.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have abominated me, They have kept far from me, And from before me have not spared to spit.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because His cord He loosed and afflicteth me, And the bridle from before me, They have cast away.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> On the right hand doth a brood arise, My feet they have cast away, And they raise up against me, Their paths of calamity.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They have broken down my path, By my calamity they profit, `He hath no helper.'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As a wide breach they come, Under the desolation have rolled themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He hath turned against me terrors, It pursueth as the wind mine abundance, And as a thick cloud, Hath my safety passed away.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And now, in me my soul poureth itself out, Seize me do days of affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> At night my bone hath been pierced in me, And mine eyelids do not lie down.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By the abundance of power, Is my clothing changed, As the mouth of my coat it doth gird me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Casting me into mire, And I am become like dust and ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I cry unto Thee, And Thou dost not answer me, I have stood, and Thou dost consider me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou art turned to be fierce to me, With the strength of Thy hand, Thou oppressest me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou dost lift me up, On the wind Thou dost cause me to ride, And Thou meltest--Thou levellest me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I have known To death Thou dost bring me back, And [to] the house appointed for all living.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Surely not against the heap Doth He send forth the hand, Though in its ruin they have safety.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Did not I weep for him whose day is hard? Grieved hath my soul for the needy.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When good I expected, then cometh evil, And I wait for light, and darkness cometh.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My bowels have boiled, and have not ceased, Gone before me have days of affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Mourning I have gone without the sun, I have risen, in an assembly I cry.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> A brother I have been to dragons, And a companion to daughters of the ostrich.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> My skin hath been black upon me, And my bone hath burned from heat,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And my harp doth become mourning, And my organ the sound of weeping.</p>

</body>
</html>