<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Eliphaz the Temanite answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Doth a wise man answer [with] vain knowledge? And fill [with] an east wind his belly?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To reason with a word not useful? And speeches--no profit in them?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yea, thou dost make reverence void, And dost diminish meditation before God.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thy mouth teacheth thine iniquity, And thou chooseth the tongue of the subtile.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy mouth declareth thee wicked, and not I, And thy lips testify against thee.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The first man art thou born? And before the heights wast thou formed?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Of the secret counsel of God dost thou hear? And withdrawest thou unto thee wisdom?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What hast thou known, and we know not? Understandest thou--and it is not with us?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Both the gray-headed And the very aged [are] among us--Greater than thy father [in] days.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Too few for thee are the comforts of God? And a gentle word [is] with thee,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What--doth thine heart take thee away? And what--are thine eyes high?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For thou turnest against God thy spirit? And hast brought out words from thy mouth:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What [is] man that he is pure, And that he is righteous, one born of woman?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lo, in His holy ones He putteth no credence, And the heavens have not been pure in His eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Also--surely abominable and filthy Is man drinking as water perverseness.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I shew thee--hearken to me--And this I have seen and declare:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Which the wise declare--And have not hid--from their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> To them alone was the land given, And a stranger passed not over into their midst:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `All days of the wicked he is paining himself, And few years have been laid up for the terrible one.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A fearful voice [is] in his ears, In peace doth a destroyer come to him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He believeth not to return from darkness, And watched [is] he for the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He is wandering for bread--`Where [is] it?' He hath known that ready at his hand Is a day of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Terrify him do adversity and distress, They prevail over him As a king ready for a boaster.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he stretched out against God his hand, And against the Mighty he maketh himself mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He runneth unto Him with a neck, With thick bosses of his shields.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For he hath covered his face with his fat, And maketh vigour over [his] confidence.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he inhabiteth cities cut off, houses not dwelt in, That have been ready to become heaps.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He is not rich, nor doth his wealth rise, Nor doth he stretch out on earth their continuance.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He turneth not aside from darkness, His tender branch doth a flame dry up, And he turneth aside at the breath of His mouth!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let him not put credence in vanity, He hath been deceived, For vanity is his recompence.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Not in his day is it completed, And his bending branch is not green.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He shaketh off as a vine his unripe fruit, And casteth off as an olive his blossom.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For the company of the profane [is] gloomy, And fire hath consumed tents of bribery.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> To conceive misery, and to bear iniquity, Even their heart doth prepare deceit.</p>

</body>
</html>