<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Elihu answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> This hast thou reckoned for judgment: Thou hast said--`My righteousness [is] more than God's?'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou sayest, `What doth it profit Thee! What do I profit from my sin?'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I return thee words, and thy friends with thee,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold attentively the heavens--and see, And behold the clouds, They have been higher than thou.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If thou hast sinned, what dost thou against Him? And thy transgressions have been multiplied, What dost thou to Him?</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If thou hast been righteous, What dost thou give to Him? Or what from thy hand doth He receive?</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For a man like thyself [is] thy wickedness, And for a son of man thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because of the multitude of oppressions They cause to cry out, They cry because of the arm of the mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And none said, `Where [is] God my maker? Giving songs in the night,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Teaching us more than the beasts of the earth, Yea, than the fowl of the heavens He maketh us wiser.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There they cry, and He doth not answer, Because of the pride of evil doers.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely vanity God doth not hear, And the Mighty doth not behold it.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yea, though thou sayest thou dost not behold Him, Judgment [is] before Him, and stay for Him.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And, now, because there is not, He hath appointed His anger, And He hath not known in great extremity.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Job [with] vanity doth open his mouth, Without knowledge words he multiplieth.</p>

</body>
</html>