<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A covenant I made for mine eyes, And what--do I attend to a virgin?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And what [is] the portion of God from above? And the inheritance of the Mighty from the heights?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is not calamity to the perverse? And strangeness to workers of iniquity?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Doth not He see my ways, And all my steps number?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If I have walked with vanity, And my foot doth hasten to deceit,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He doth weigh me in righteous balances, And God doth know my integrity.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If my step doth turn aside from the way, And after mine eyes hath my heart gone, And to my hands cleaved hath blemish,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let me sow--and another eat, And my products let be rooted out.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If my heart hath been enticed by woman, And by the opening of my neighbour I laid wait,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Grind to another let my wife, And over her let others bend.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For it [is] a wicked thing, and a judicial iniquity;</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For a fire it [is], to destruction it consumeth, And among all mine increase doth take root,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I despise the cause of my man-servant, And of my handmaid, In their contending with me,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then what do I do when God ariseth? And when He doth inspect, What do I answer Him?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Did not He that made me in the womb make him? Yea, prepare us in the womb doth One.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If I withhold from pleasure the poor, And the eyes of the widow do consume,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I do eat my morsel by myself, And the orphan hath not eat of it,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (But from my youth He grew up with me as [with] a father, And from the belly of my mother I am led.)</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If I see [any] perishing without clothing, And there is no covering to the needy,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If his loins have not blessed me, And from the fleece of my sheep He doth not warm himself,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If I have waved at the fatherless my hand, When I see in [him] the gate of my court,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> My shoulder from its blade let fall, And mine arm from the bone be broken.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For a dread unto me [is] calamity [from] God, And because of His excellency I am not able.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I have made gold my confidence, And to the pure gold have said, `My trust,'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If I rejoice because great [is] my wealth, And because abundance hath my hand found,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If I see the light when it shineth, And the precious moon walking,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And my heart is enticed in secret, And my hand doth kiss my mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> It also [is] a judicial iniquity, For I had lied to God above.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> If I rejoice at the ruin of my hater, And stirred up myself when evil found him,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Yea, I have not suffered my mouth to sin, To ask with an oath his life.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If not--say ye, O men of my tent, `O that we had of his flesh, we are not satisfied.'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> In the street doth not lodge a stranger, My doors to the traveller I open.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If I have covered as Adam my transgressions, To hide in my bosom mine iniquity,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Because I fear a great multitude, And the contempt of families doth affright me, Then I am silent, I go not out of the opening.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Who giveth to me a hearing? lo, my mark. The Mighty One doth answer me, And a bill hath mine adversary written.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> If not--on my shoulder I take it up, I bind it a crown on myself.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The number of my steps I tell Him, As a leader I approach Him.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> If against me my land doth cry out, And together its furrows weep,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> If its strength I consumed without money, And the life of its possessors, I have caused to breathe out,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Instead of wheat let a thorn go forth, And instead of barley a useless weed! The words of</p>

</body>
</html>