<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Surely there is for silver a source, And a place for the gold they refine;</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Iron from the dust is taken, And [from] the firm stone brass.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> An end hath he set to darkness, And to all perfection he is searching, A stone of darkness and death-shade.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A stream hath broken out from a sojourner, Those forgotten of the foot, They were low, from man they wandered.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The earth! from it cometh forth bread, And its under-part is turned like fire.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A place of the sapphire [are] its stones, And it hath dust of gold.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A path--not known it hath a ravenous fowl, Nor scorched it hath an eye of the kite,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Nor trodden it have the sons of pride, Not passed over it hath the fierce lion.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Against the flint he sent forth his hand, He overturned from the root mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Among rocks, brooks he hath cleaved, And every precious thing hath his eye seen.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> From overflowing floods he hath bound, And the hidden thing bringeth out [to] light.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the wisdom--whence is it found? And where [is] this, the place of understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Man hath not known its arrangement, Nor is it found in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The deep hath said, `It [is] not in me,' And the sea hath said, `It is not with me.'</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Gold is not given for it, Nor is silver weighed--its price.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It is not valued with pure gold of Ophir, With precious onyx and sapphire,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Not equal it do gold and crystal, Nor [is] its exchange a vessel of fine gold.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Corals and pearl are not remembered, The acquisition of wisdom [is] above rubies.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Not equal it doth the topaz of Cush, With pure gold it is not valued.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the wisdom--whence doth it come? And where [is] this, the place of understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It hath been hid from the eyes of all living. And from the fowl of the heavens It hath been hidden.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Destruction and death have said: `With our ears we have heard its fame.'</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> God hath understood its way, And He hath known its place.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For He to the ends of the earth doth look, Under the whole heavens He doth see,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> To make for the wind a weight, And the waters He meted out in measure.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In His making for the rain a limit, And a way for the brightness of the voices,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then He hath seen and declareth it, He hath prepared it, and also searched it out,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And He saith to man: --`Lo, fear of the Lord, that [is] wisdom, And to turn from evil [is] understanding.'</p>

</body>
</html>