<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Is there not a warfare to man on earth? And as the days of an hireling his days?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As a servant desireth the shadow, And as a hireling expecteth his wage,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So I have been caused to inherit months of vanity, And nights of misery they numbered to me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If I lay down then I said, `When do I rise!' And evening hath been measured, And I have been full of tossings till dawn.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Clothed hath been my flesh [with] worms, And a clod of dust, My skin hath been shrivelled and is loathsome,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My days swifter than a weaving machine, And they are consumed without hope.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember Thou that my life [is] a breath, Mine eye turneth not back to see good.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The eye of my beholder beholdeth me not. Thine eyes [are] upon me--and I am not.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Consumed hath been a cloud, and it goeth, So he who is going down to Sheol cometh not up.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He turneth not again to his house, Nor doth his place discern him again.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Also I--I withhold not my mouth--I speak in the distress of my spirit, I talk in the bitterness of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A sea -[monster] am I, or a dragon, That thou settest over me a guard?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When I said, `My bed doth comfort me,' He taketh away in my talking my couch.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And thou hast affrighted me with dreams, And from visions thou terrifiest me,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And my soul chooseth strangling, Death rather than my bones.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have wasted away--not to the age do I live. Cease from me, for my days [are] vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> What [is] man that Thou dost magnify him? And that Thou settest unto him Thy heart?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And inspectest him in the mornings, In the evenings dost try him?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How long dost Thou not look from me? Thou dost not desist till I swallow my spittle.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have sinned, what do I to Thee, O watcher of man? Why hast Thou set me for a mark to Thee, And I am for a burden to myself--and what?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou dost not take away my transgression, And cause to pass away mine iniquity, Because now, for dust I lie down: And Thou hast sought me--and I am not!</p>

</body>
</html>