<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Till when do ye afflict my soul, And bruise me with words?</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> These ten times ye put me to shame, ye blush not. Ye make yourselves strange to me--</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And also--truly, I have erred, With me doth my error remain.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If, truly, over me ye magnify yourselves, And decide against me my reproach;</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Know now, that God turned me upside down, And His net against me hath set round,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, I cry out--violence, and am not answered, I cry aloud, and there is no judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My way He hedged up, and I pass not over, And on my paths darkness He placeth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Mine honour from off me He hath stripped, And He turneth the crown from my head.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He breaketh me down round about, and I go, And removeth like a tree my hope.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And He kindleth against me His anger, And reckoneth me to Him as His adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Come in do His troops together, And they raise up against me their way, And encamp round about my tent.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> My brethren from me He hath put far off, And mine acquaintances surely Have been estranged from me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ceased have my neighbours And my familiar friends have forgotten me,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Sojourners of my house and my maids, For a stranger reckon me: An alien I have been in their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To my servant I have called, And he doth not answer, With my mouth I make supplication to him.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My spirit is strange to my wife, And my favours to the sons of my [mother's] womb.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Also sucklings have despised me, I rise, and they speak against me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Abominate me do all the men of my counsel, And those I have loved, Have been turned against me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> To my skin and to my flesh Cleaved hath my bone, And I deliver myself with the skin of my teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Pity me, pity me, ye my friends, For the hand of God hath stricken against me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Why do you pursue me as God? And with my flesh are not satisfied?</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who doth grant now, That my words may be written? Who doth grant that in a book they may be graven?</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> With a pen of iron and lead--For ever in a rock they may be hewn.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> That--I have known my Redeemer, The Living and the Last, For the dust he doth rise.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And after my skin hath compassed this [body], Then from my flesh I see God:</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whom I--I see on my side, And mine eyes have beheld, and not a stranger, Consumed have been my reins in my bosom.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But ye say, `Why do we pursue after him?' And the root of the matter hath been found in me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Be ye afraid because of the sword, For furious [are] the punishments of the sword, That ye may know that [there is] a judgment.</p>

</body>
</html>