<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wherefore from the Mighty One Times have not been hidden, And those knowing Him have not seen His days.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The borders they reach, A drove they have taken violently away, Yea, they do evil.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The ass of the fatherless they lead away, They take in pledge the ox of the widow,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They turn aside the needy from the way, Together have hid the poor of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lo, wild asses in a wilderness, They have gone out about their work, Seeking early for prey, A mixture for himself--food for young ones.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In a field his provender they reap, And the vineyard of the wicked they glean.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The naked they cause to lodge Without clothing. And there is no covering in the cold.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> From the inundation of hills they are wet, And without a refuge--have embraced a rock.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They take violently away From the breast the orphan, And on the poor they lay a pledge.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Naked, they have gone without clothing, And hungry--have taken away a sheaf.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Between their walls they make oil, Wine-presses they have trodden, and thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because of enmity men do groan, And the soul of pierced ones doth cry, And God doth not give praise.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They have been among rebellious ones of light, They have not discerned His ways, Nor abode in His paths.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> At the light doth the murderer rise, He doth slay the poor and needy, And in the night he is as a thief.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the eye of an adulterer Hath observed the twilight, Saying, `No eye doth behold me.' And he putteth the face in secret.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He hath dug in the darkness--houses; By day they shut themselves up, They have not known light.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When together, morning [is] to them death shade, When he discerneth the terrors of death shade.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Light he [is] on the face of the waters, Vilified is their portion in the earth, He turneth not the way of vineyards.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Drought--also heat--consume snow-waters, Sheol [those who] have sinned.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Forget him doth the womb, Sweeten [on] him doth the worm, No more is he remembered, And broken as a tree is wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Treating evil the barren [who] beareth not, And [to] the widow he doth no good,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And hath drawn the mighty by his power, He riseth, and none believeth in life.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He giveth to him confidence, and he is supported, And his eyes [are] on their ways.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> High they were [for] a little, and they are not, And they have been brought low. As all [others] they are shut up, And as the head of an ear of corn cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And if not now, who doth prove me a liar, And doth make of nothing my word?</p>

</body>
</html>