<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> What--thou hast helped the powerless, Saved an arm not strong!</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> What--thou hast given counsel to the unwise, And wise plans in abundance made known.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> With whom hast thou declared words? And whose breath came forth from thee?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The Rephaim are formed, Beneath the waters, also their inhabitants.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Naked [is] Sheol over-against Him, And there is no covering to destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Stretching out the north over desolation, Hanging the earth upon nothing,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Binding up the waters in His thick clouds, And the cloud is not rent under them.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Taking hold of the face of the throne, Spreading over it His cloud.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A limit He hath placed on the waters, Unto the boundary of light with darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Pillars of the heavens do tremble, And they wonder because of His rebuke.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By His power He hath quieted the sea, And by His understanding smitten the proud.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> By His Spirit the heavens He beautified, Formed hath His hand the fleeing serpent.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Lo, these [are] the borders of His way, And how little a matter is heard of Him, And the thunder of His might Who doth understand?</p>

</body>
</html>