<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O that my provocation were thoroughly weighed, And my calamity in balances They would lift up together!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For now, than the sands of the sea it is heavier, Therefore my words have been rash.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For arrows of the Mighty [are] with me, Whose poison is drinking up my spirit. Terrors of God array themselves [for] me!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Brayeth a wild ass over tender grass? Loweth an ox over his provender?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Eaten is an insipid thing without salt? Is there sense in the drivel of dreams?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My soul is refusing to touch! They [are] as my sickening food.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O that my request may come, That God may grant my hope!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That God would please--and bruise me, Loose His hand and cut me off!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And yet it is my comfort, (And I exult in pain--He doth not spare,) That I have not hidden The sayings of the Holy One.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> What [is] my power that I should hope? And what mine end That I should prolong my life?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Is my strength the strength of stones? Is my flesh brazen?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Is not my help with me, And substance driven from me?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> To a despiser of his friends [is] shame, And the fear of the Mighty he forsaketh.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My brethren have deceived as a brook, As a stream of brooks they pass away.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> That are black because of ice, By them doth snow hide itself.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> By the time they are warm they have been cut off, By its being hot they have been Extinguished from their place.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Turn aside do the paths of their way, They ascend into emptiness, and are lost.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Passengers of Tema looked expectingly, Travellers of Sheba hoped for them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They were ashamed that one hath trusted, They have come unto it and are confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Surely now ye have become the same! Ye see a downfall, and are afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Is it because I said, Give to me? And, By your power bribe for me?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And, Deliver me from the hand of an adversary? And, From the hand of terrible ones ransom me?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shew me, and I--I keep silent, And what I have erred, let me understand.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How powerful have been upright sayings, And what doth reproof from you reprove?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For reproof--do you reckon words? And for wind--sayings of the desperate.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Anger on the fatherless ye cause to fall, And are strange to your friend.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And, now, please, look upon me, Even to your face do I lie?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Turn back, I pray you, let it not be perverseness, Yea, turn back again--my righteousness [is] in it.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Is there in my tongue perverseness? Discerneth not my palate desirable things?</p>

</body>
</html>