<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Bildad the Shuhite answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When do ye set an end to words? Consider ye, and afterwards do we speak.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Wherefore have we been reckoned as cattle? We have been defiled in your eyes!</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> (He is tearing himself in his anger.) For thy sake is earth forsaken? And removed is a rock from its place?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Also, the light of the wicked is extinguished. And there doth not shine a spark of his fire.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The light hath been dark in his tent, And his lamp over him is extinguished.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Straitened are the steps of his strength, And cast him down doth his own counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he is sent into a net by his own feet, And on a snare he doth walk habitually.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Seize on the heel doth a gin, Prevail over him do the designing.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hidden in the earth is his cord, And his trap on the path.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Round about terrified him have terrors, And they have scattered him--at his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hungry is his sorrow, And calamity is ready at his side.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> It consumeth the parts of his skin, Consume his parts doth death's first-born.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Drawn from his tent is his confidence, And it causeth him to step to the king of terrors.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It dwelleth in his tent--out of his provender, Scattered over his habitation is sulphur.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> From beneath his roots are dried up, And from above cut off is his crop.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His memorial hath perished from the land, And he hath no name on the street.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They thrust him from light unto darkness, And from the habitable earth cast him out.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He hath no continuator, Nor successor among his people, And none is remaining in his dwellings.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> At this day westerns have been astonished And easterns have taken fright.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Only these [are] tabernacles of the perverse, And this the place God hath not known.</p>

</body>
</html>