<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear ye diligently my word, And this is your consolation.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bear with me, and I speak, And after my speaking--ye may deride.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I--to man [is] my complaint? and if [so], wherefore May not my temper become short?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Turn unto me, and be astonished, And put hand to mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yea, if I have remembered, then I have been troubled. And my flesh hath taken fright.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore do the wicked live? They have become old, Yea, they have been mighty in wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their seed is established, Before their face with them, And their offspring before their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Their houses [are] peace without fear, Nor [is] a rod of God upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His bullock hath eaten corn, and doth not loath. His cow bringeth forth safely, And doth not miscarry.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They send forth as a flock their sucklings, And their children skip,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They lift [themselves] up at timbrel and harp, And rejoice at the sound of an organ.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They wear out in good their days, And in a moment [to] Sheol go down.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they say to God, `Turn aside from us, And the knowledge of Thy ways We have not desired.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What [is] the Mighty One that we serve Him? And what do we profit when we meet with Him?'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lo, not in their hand [is] their good, (The counsel of the wicked Hath been far from me.)</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How oft is the lamp of the wicked extinguished, And come on them doth their calamity? Pangs He apportioneth in His anger.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They are as straw before wind, And as chaff a hurricane hath stolen away,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God layeth up for his sons his sorrow, He giveth recompense unto him--and he knoweth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> His own eyes see his destruction, And of the wrath of the Mighty he drinketh.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For what [is] his delight in his house after him, And the number of his months cut off?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> To God doth [one] teach knowledge, And He the high doth judge?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This [one] dieth in his perfect strength, Wholly at ease and quiet.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His breasts have been full of milk, And marrow his bones doth moisten.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And this [one] dieth with a bitter soul, And have not eaten with gladness.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Together--on the dust they lie down, And the worm doth cover them over.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Lo, I have known your thoughts, And the devices against me ye do wrongfully.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For ye say, `Where [is] the house of the noble? And where the tent--The tabernacles of the wicked?'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Have ye not asked those passing by the way? And their signs do ye not know?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> That to a day of calamity is the wicked spared. To a day of wrath they are brought.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Who doth declare to his face his way? And [for] that which he hath done, Who doth give recompence to him?</p>

<p><a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he--to the graves he is brought. And over the heap a watch is kept.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Sweet to him have been the clods of the valley, And after him every man he draweth, And before him there is no numbering.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And how do ye comfort me [with] vanity, And in your answers hath been left trespass?</p>

</body>
</html>