<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Pray, call, is there any to answer thee? And unto which of the holy ones dost thou turn?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For provocation slayeth the perverse, And envy putteth to death the simple,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I--I have seen the perverse taking root, And I mark his habitation straightway,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Far are his sons from safety, And they are bruised in the gate, And there is no deliverer.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whose harvest the hungry doth eat, And even from the thorns taketh it, And the designing swallowed their wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For sorrow cometh not forth from the dust, Nor from the ground springeth up misery.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For man to misery is born, And the sparks go high to fly.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yet I--I inquire for God, And for God I give my word,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Doing great things, and there is no searching. Wonderful, till there is no numbering.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is giving rain on the face of the land, And is sending waters on the out-places.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> To set the low on a high place, And the mourners have been high [in] safety.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Making void thoughts of the subtile, And their hands do not execute wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Capturing the wise in their subtilty, And the counsel of wrestling ones was hastened,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> By day they meet darkness, And as night--they grope at noon.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And He saveth the wasted from their mouth, And from a strong hand the needy,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And there is hope to the poor, And perverseness hath shut her mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Lo, the happiness of mortal man, God doth reprove him: And the chastisement of the Mighty despise not,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For He doth pain, and He bindeth up, He smiteth, and His hands heal.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In six distresses He delivereth thee, And in seven evil striketh not on thee.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In famine He hath redeemed thee from death, And in battle from the hands of the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When the tongue scourgeth thou art hid, And thou art not afraid of destruction, When it cometh.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At destruction and at hunger thou mockest, And of the beast of the earth, Thou art not afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> (For with sons of the field [is] thy covenant, And the beast of the field Hath been at peace with thee.)</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And thou hast known that thy tent [is] peace, And inspected thy habitation, and errest not,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And hast known that numerous [is] Thy seed, And thine offspring as the herb of the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Thou comest in full age unto the grave, As the going up of a stalk in its season.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Lo, this--we searched it out--it [is] right, hearken; And thou, know for thyself!</p>

</body>
</html>