<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Bildad the Shuhite answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Till when dost thou speak these things? And a strong wind--sayings of thy mouth?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Doth God pervert judgment? And doth the Mighty One pervert justice?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If thy sons have sinned before Him, And He doth send them away, By the hand of their transgression,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou dost seek early unto God, And unto the Mighty makest supplication,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If pure and upright thou [art], Surely now He waketh for thee, And hath completed The habitation of thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thy beginning hath been small, And thy latter end is very great.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For, ask I pray thee of a former generation, And prepare to a search of their fathers,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (For of yesterday we [are], and we know not, For a shadow [are] our days on earth.)</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Do they not shew thee--speak to thee, And from their heart bring forth words?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `Doth a rush wise without mire? A reed increase without water?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While it [is] in its budding--uncropped, Even before any herb it withereth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So [are] the paths of all forgetting God, And the hope of the profane doth perish,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whose confidence is loathsome, And the house of a spider his trust.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He leaneth on his house--and it standeth not: He taketh hold on it--and it abideth not.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Green he [is] before the sun, And over his garden his branch goeth out.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> By a heap his roots are wrapped, A house of stones he looketh for.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If [one] doth destroy him from his place, Then it hath feigned concerning him, I have not seen thee!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Lo, this [is] the joy of his way, And from the dust others spring up.'</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Lo, God doth not reject the perfect, Nor taketh hold on the hand of evil doers.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> While he filleth with laughter thy mouth, And thy lips with shouting,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Those hating thee do put on shame, And the tent of the wicked is not!</p>

</body>
</html>