<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answereth and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have heard many such things, Miserable comforters [are] ye all.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is there an end to words of wind? Or what doth embolden thee that thou answerest?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I also, like you, might speak, If your soul were in my soul's stead. I might join against you with words, And nod at you with my head.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I might harden you with my mouth, And the moving of my lips might be sparing.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If I speak, my pain is not restrained, And I cease--what goeth from me?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Only, now, it hath wearied me; Thou hast desolated all my company,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Thou dost loathe me, For a witness it hath been, And rise up against me doth my failure, In my face it testifieth.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> His anger hath torn, and he hateth me, He hath gnashed at me with his teeth, My adversary sharpeneth his eyes for me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have gaped on me with their mouth, In reproach they have smitten my cheeks, Together against me they set themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God shutteth me up unto the perverse, And to the hands of the wicked turneth me over.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> At ease I have been, and he breaketh me, And he hath laid hold on my neck, And he breaketh me in pieces, And he raiseth me to him for a mark.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Go round against me do his archers. He splitteth my reins, and spareth not, He poureth out to the earth my gall.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He breaketh me--breach upon breach, He runneth upon me as a mighty one.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Sackcloth I have sewed on my skin, And have rolled in the dust my horn.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My face is foul with weeping, And on mine eyelids [is] death-shade.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Not for violence in my hands, And my prayer [is] pure.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> O earth, do not thou cover my blood! And let there not be a place for my cry.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also, now, lo, in the heavens [is] my witness, And my testifier in the high places.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My interpreter [is] my friend, Unto God hath mine eye dropped:</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he reasoneth for a man with God, And a son of man for his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When a few years do come, Then a path I return not do I go.</p>

</body>
</html>