<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And yet, I pray thee, O Job, Hear my speech and [to] all my words give ear.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lo, I pray thee, I have opened my mouth, My tongue hath spoken in the palate.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Of the uprightness of my heart [are] my sayings, And knowledge have my lips clearly spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Spirit of God hath made me, And the breath of the Mighty doth quicken me.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou art able--answer me, Set in array before me--station thyself.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lo, I [am], according to thy word, for God, From the clay I--I also, have been formed.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, my terror doth not frighten thee, And my burden on thee is not heavy.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Surely--thou hast said in mine ears, And the sounds of words I hear:</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `Pure [am] I, without transgression, Innocent [am] I, and I have no iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lo, occasions against me He doth find, He doth reckon me for an enemy to Him,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He doth put in the stocks my feet, He doth watch all my paths.'</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Lo, [in] this thou hast not been righteous, I answer thee, that greater is God than man.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Wherefore against Him hast thou striven, When [for] all His matters He answereth not?</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For once doth God speak, and twice, (He doth not behold it.)</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In a dream--a vision of night, In the falling of deep sleep on men, In slumberings on a bed.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then He uncovereth the ear of men, And for their instruction sealeth:</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> To turn aside man [from] doing, And pride from man He concealeth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He keepeth back his soul from corruption, And his life from passing away by a dart.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he hath been reproved With pain on his bed, And the strife of his bones [is] enduring.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And his life hath nauseated bread, And his soul desirable food.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His flesh is consumed from being seen, And high are his bones, they were not seen!</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And draw near to the pit doth his soul, And his life to those causing death.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If there is by him a messenger, An interpreter--one of a thousand, To declare for man his uprightness:</p>

<p><a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then He doth favour him and saith, `Ransom him from going down to the pit, I have found an atonement.'</p>

<p><a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Fresher [is] his flesh than a child's, He returneth to the days of his youth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He maketh supplication unto God, And He accepteth him. And he seeth His face with shouting, And He returneth to man His righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He looketh on men, and saith, `I sinned, And uprightness I have perverted, And it hath not been profitable to me.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He hath ransomed my soul From going over into the pit, And my life on the light looketh.'</p>

<p><a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Lo, all these doth God work, Twice--thrice with man,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> To bring back his soul from the pit, To be enlightened with the light of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Attend, O Job, hearken to me, Keep silent, and I--I do speak.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If there are words--answer me, Speak, for I have a desire to justify thee.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If there are not--hearken thou to me, Keep silent, and I teach thee wisdom.</p>

</body>
</html>