<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah doth answer Job, and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Is the striver with the Mighty instructed? The reprover of God, let him answer it.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Job answereth Jehovah, and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lo, I have been vile, What do I return to Thee? My hand I have placed on my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Once I have spoken, and I answer not, And twice, and I add not.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah answereth Job out of the whirlwind, and saith: --</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gird, I pray thee, as a man, thy loins, I ask thee, and cause thou Me to know.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Dost thou also make void My judgment? Dost thou condemn Me, That thou mayest be righteous?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And an arm like God hast thou? And with a voice like Him dost thou thunder?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Put on, I pray thee, excellency and loftiness, Yea, honour and beauty put on.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Scatter abroad the wrath of thine anger, And see every proud one, and make him low.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> See every proud one--humble him, And tread down the wicked in their place.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hide them in the dust together, Their faces bind in secret.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And even I--I do praise thee, For thy right hand giveth salvation to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lo, I pray thee, Behemoth, that I made with thee: Grass as an ox he eateth.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lo, I pray thee, his power [is] in his loins, And his strength in the muscles of his belly.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He doth bend his tail as a cedar, The sinews of his thighs are wrapped together,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His bones [are] tubes of brass, His bones [are] as a bar of iron.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He [is] a beginning of the ways of God, His Maker bringeth nigh his sword;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For food do mountains bear for him, And all the beasts of the field play there.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Under shades he lieth down, In a secret place of reed and mire.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Cover him do shades, [with] their shadow, Cover him do willows of the brook.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Lo, a flood oppresseth--he doth not haste, He is confident though Jordan Doth come forth unto his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Before his eyes doth [one] take him, With snares doth [one] pierce the nose?</p>

</body>
</html>