<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 48</h2>

<p><a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Song, a Psalm, by sons of Korah. Great [is] Jehovah, and praised greatly, In the city of our God--His holy hill.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beautiful [for] elevation, A joy of all the land, [is] Mount Zion, The sides of the north, the city of a great king.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God in her high places is known for a tower.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For, lo, the kings met, they passed by together,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They have seen--so they have marvelled, They have been troubled, they were hastened away.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Trembling hath seized them there, Pain, as of a travailing woman.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> By an east wind Thou shiverest ships of Tarshish.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As we have heard, so we have seen, In the city of Jehovah of hosts, In the city of our God, God doth establish her--to the age. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We have thought, O God, of Thy kindness, In the midst of Thy temple,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As [is] Thy name, O God, so [is] Thy praise, Over the ends of the earth, Righteousness hath filled Thy right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rejoice doth Mount Zion, The daughters of Judah are joyful, For the sake of Thy judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Compass Zion, and go round her, count her towers,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Set your heart to her bulwark, Consider her high places, So that ye recount to a later generation,</p>

<p><a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> That this God [is] our God--To the age and for ever, He--he doth lead us over death!</p>

</body>
</html>