<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm of David. Jehovah, in Thy strength is the king joyful, In Thy salvation how greatly he rejoiceth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The desire of his heart Thou gavest to him, And the request of his lips Thou hast not withheld. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Thou puttest before him blessings of goodness, Thou settest on his head a crown of fine gold.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Life he hath asked from Thee, Thou hast given to him--length of days, Age-during-- and for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Great [is] his honour in Thy salvation, Honour and majesty Thou placest on him.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For Thou makest him blessings for ever, Thou dost cause him to rejoice with joy, By Thy countenance.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the king is trusting in Jehovah, And in the kindness of the Most High He is not moved.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy hand cometh to all Thine enemies, Thy right hand doth find Thy haters.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou makest them as a furnace of fire, At the time of Thy presence. Jehovah in His anger doth swallow them, And fire doth devour them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Their fruit from earth Thou destroyest, And their seed from the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For they stretched out against Thee evil, They devised a wicked device, they prevail not,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For Thou makest them a butt, When Thy strings Thou preparest against their faces.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be Thou exalted, O Jehovah in, Thy strength, We sing and we praise Thy might!</p>

</body>
</html>