<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 58</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 58</h2>

<p><a id="c58_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`Destroy not.' --A secret treasure, by David. Is it true, O dumb one, righteously ye speak? Uprightly ye judge, O sons of men?</p>

<p><a id="c58_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Even in heart ye work iniquities, In the land the violence of your hands ye ponder.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The wicked have been estranged from the womb, They have erred from the belly, speaking lies.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their poison [is] as poison of a serpent, As a deaf asp shutting its ear,</p>

<p><a id="c58_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Which hearkeneth not to the voice of whisperers, A charmer of charms most skilful.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O God, break their teeth in their mouth, The jaw-teeth of young lions break down, O Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are melted as waters, They go up and down for themselves, His arrow proceedeth as they cut themselves off.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As a snail that melteth he goeth on, [As] an untimely birth of a woman, They have not seen the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Before your pots discern the bramble, As well the raw as the heated He whirleth away.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The righteous rejoiceth that he hath seen vengeance, His steps he washeth in the blood of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c58_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And man saith: `Surely fruit [is] for the righteous: Surely there is a God judging in the earth!'</p>

</body>
</html>