<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --By a servant of Jehovah, by David, who hath spoken to Jehovah the words of this song in the day Jehovah delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul, and he saith: --I love Thee, O Jehovah, my strength.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah [is] my rock, and my bulwark, And my deliverer, My God [is] my rock, I trust in Him: My shield, and a horn of my salvation, My high tower.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The `Praised One' I call Jehovah, And from my enemies I am saved.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Compassed me have cords of death, And streams of the worthless make me afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Cords of Sheol have surrounded me, Before me have been snares of death.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In mine adversity I call Jehovah, And unto my God I cry. He heareth from His temple my voice, And My cry before Him cometh into His ears.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And shake and tremble doth the earth, And foundations of hills are troubled, And they shake--because He hath wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Gone up hath smoke by His nostrils, And fire from His mouth consumeth, Coals have been kindled by it.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And He inclineth the heavens, and cometh down, And thick darkness [is] under His feet.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And He rideth on a cherub, and doth fly, And He flieth on wings of wind.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He maketh darkness His secret place, Round about Him His tabernacle, Darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> From the brightness over-against Him His thick clouds have passed on, Hail and coals of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thunder in the heavens doth Jehovah, And the Most High giveth forth His voice, Hail and coals of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And He sendeth His arrows and scattereth them, And much lightning, and crusheth them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And seen are the streams of waters, And revealed are foundations of the earth. From Thy rebuke, O Jehovah, From the breath of the spirit of Thine anger.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He sendeth from above--He taketh me, He draweth me out of many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He delivereth me from my strong enemy, And from those hating me, For they have been stronger than I.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They go before me in a day of my calamity And Jehovah is for a support to me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And He bringeth me forth to a large place, He draweth me out, because He delighted in me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Jehovah doth recompense me According to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands, He doth return to me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For I have kept the ways of Jehovah, And have not done wickedly against my God.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For all His judgments [are] before me, And His statutes I turn not from me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I am perfect with him, And I keep myself from mine iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Jehovah doth return to me, According to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands, Over-against his eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> With the kind Thou showest Thyself kind, With a perfect man showest Thyself perfect.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> With the pure Thou showest Thyself pure, And with the perverse showest Thyself a wrestler,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For Thou a poor people savest, And the eyes of the high causest to fall.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For Thou--Thou lightest my lamp, Jehovah my God enlighteneth my darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For by Thee I run--a troop! And by my God I leap a wall.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> God! perfect [is] His way, The saying of Jehovah is tried, A shield [is] He to all those trusting in Him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For who [is] God besides Jehovah? And who [is] a rock save our God?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> God! who is girding me [with] strength, And He maketh perfect my way.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Making my feet like hinds, And on my high places causeth me to stand.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Teaching my hands for battle, And a bow of brass was brought down by my arms.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Thou givest to me the shield of Thy salvation, And Thy right hand doth support me, And Thy lowliness maketh me great.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Thou enlargest my step under me, And mine ankles have not slidden.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I pursue mine enemies, and overtake them, And turn back not till they are consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I smite them, and they are not able to rise, They fall under my feet,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Thou girdest me [with] strength for battle, Causest my withstanders to bow under me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> As to mine enemies--Thou hast given to me the neck, As to those hating me--I cut them off.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> They cry, and there is no saviour, On Jehovah, and He doth not answer them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And I beat them as dust before wind, As mire of the streets I empty them out.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Thou dost deliver me From the strivings of the people, Thou placest me for a head of nations, A people I have not known do serve me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> At the hearing of the ear they hearken to me, Sons of a stranger feign obedience to me,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Sons of a stranger fade away, And are slain out of their close places.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Jehovah liveth--and blessed [is] my rock, And exalted is the God of my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> God--who is giving vengeance to me, And He subdueth peoples under me,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> My deliverer from mine enemies, Above my withstanders Thou raisest me, From a man of violence dost deliver me.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Therefore I confess Thee among nations, O Jehovah, And to Thy name I sing praise,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Magnifying the salvation of His king, And doing kindness to His anointed, To David, and to his seed--unto the age!</p>

</body>
</html>