<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 81</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 81</h2>

<p><a id="c81_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`On the Gittith.' By Asaph. Cry aloud to God our strength, Shout to the God of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lift up a song, and give out a timbrel, A pleasant harp with psaltery.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blow in the month a trumpet, In the new moon, at the day of our festival,</p>

<p><a id="c81_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For a statute to Israel it [is], An ordinance of the God of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A testimony on Joseph He hath placed it, In his going forth over the land of Egypt. A lip, I have not known--I hear.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> From the burden his shoulder I turned aside, His hands from the basket pass over.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In distress thou hast called and I deliver thee, I answer thee in the secret place of thunder, I try thee by the waters of Meribah. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hear, O My people, and I testify to thee, O Israel, if thou dost hearken to me:</p>

<p><a id="c81_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There is not in thee a strange god, And thou bowest not thyself to a strange god.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I [am] Jehovah thy God, Who bringeth thee up out of the land of Egypt. Enlarge thy mouth, and I fill it.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But, My people hearkened not to My voice, And Israel hath not consented to Me.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I send them away in the enmity of their heart, They walk in their own counsels.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O that My people were hearkening to Me, Israel in My ways would walk.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As a little thing their enemies I cause to bow, And against their adversaries I turn back My hand,</p>

<p><a id="c81_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Those hating Jehovah feign obedience to Him, But their time is--to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He causeth him to eat of the fat of wheat, And [with] honey from a rock I satisfy thee!</p>

</body>
</html>