<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 78</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 78</h2>

<p><a id="c78_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> An Instruction of Asaph. Give ear, O my people, to my law, Incline your ear to sayings of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I open with a simile my mouth, I bring forth hidden things of old,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> That we have heard and do know, And our fathers have recounted to us.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We do not hide from their sons, To a later generation recounting praises of Jehovah, And His strength, and His wonders that He hath done.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And He raiseth up a testimony in Jacob, And a law hath placed in Israel, That He commanded our fathers, To make them known to their sons.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So that a later generation doth know, Sons who are born, do rise and recount to their sons,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And place in God their confidence, And forget not the doings of God, But keep His commands.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they are not like their fathers, A generation apostate and rebellious, A generation! it hath not prepared its heart, Nor stedfast with God [is] its spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Sons of Ephraim--armed bearers of bow, Have turned in a day of conflict.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have not kept the covenant of God, And in His law they have refused to walk,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they forget His doings, And His wonders that He shewed them.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Before their fathers He hath done wonders, In the land of Egypt--the field of Zoan.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He cleft a sea, and causeth them to pass over, Yea, He causeth waters to stand as a heap.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And leadeth them with a cloud by day, And all the night with a light of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He cleaveth rocks in a wilderness, And giveth drink--as the great deep.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And bringeth out streams from a rock, And causeth waters to come down as rivers.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they add still to sin against Him, To provoke the Most High in the dry place.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they try God in their heart, To ask food for their lust.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they speak against God--they said: `Is God able to array a table in a wilderness?'</p>

<p><a id="c78_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Lo, He hath smitten a rock, And waters flow, yea, streams overflow. `Also--bread [is] He able to give? Doth He prepare flesh for His people?'</p>

<p><a id="c78_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore hath Jehovah heard, And He sheweth Himself wroth, And fire hath been kindled against Jacob, And anger also hath gone up against Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For they have not believed in God, Nor have they trusted in His salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And He commandeth clouds from above, Yea, doors of the heavens He hath opened.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And He raineth on them manna to eat, Yea, corn of heaven He hath given to them.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Food of the mighty hath each eaten, Venison He sent to them to satiety.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He causeth an east wind to journey in the heavens, And leadeth by His strength a south wind,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And He raineth on them flesh as dust, And as sand of the seas--winged fowl,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And causeth [it] to fall in the midst of His camp, Round about His tabernacles.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they eat, and are greatly satisfied, And their desire He bringeth to them.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They have not been estranged from their desire, Yet [is] their food in their mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the anger of God hath gone up against them, And He slayeth among their fat ones, And youths of Israel He caused to bend.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> With all this they have sinned again, And have not believed in His wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And He consumeth in vanity their days, And their years in trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> If He slew them, then they sought Him, And turned back, and sought God earnestly,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they remember that God [is] their rock, And God Most High their redeemer.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And--they deceive Him with their mouth, And with their tongue do lie to Him,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And their heart hath not been right with Him, And they have not been stedfast in His covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And He--the Merciful One, Pardoneth iniquity, and destroyeth not, And hath often turned back His anger, And waketh not up all His fury.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And He remembereth that they [are] flesh, A wind going on--and it returneth not.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> How often do they provoke Him in the wilderness, Grieve Him in the desolate place?</p>

<p><a id="c78_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Yea, they turn back, and try God, And the Holy One of Israel have limited.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They have not remembered His hand The day He ransomed them from the adversary.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> When He set His signs in Egypt, And His wonders in the field of Zoan,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And He turneth to blood their streams, And their floods they drink not.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> He sendeth among them the beetle, and it consumeth them, And the frog, and it destroyeth them,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And giveth to the caterpillar their increase, And their labour to the locust.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> He destroyeth with hail their vine, And their sycamores with frost,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And delivereth up to the hail their beasts, And their cattle to the burning flames.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> He sendeth on them the fury of His anger, Wrath, and indignation, and distress--A discharge of evil messengers.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> He pondereth a path for His anger, He kept not back their soul from death, Yea, their life to the pestilence He delivered up.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And He smiteth every first-born in Egypt, The first-fruit of the strong in tents of Ham.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And causeth His people to journey as a flock, And guideth them as a drove in a wilderness,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And He leadeth them confidently, And they have not been afraid, And their enemies hath the sea covered.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And He bringeth them in unto the border of His sanctuary, This mountain His right hand had got,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And casteth out nations from before them, And causeth them to fall in the line of inheritance, And causeth the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And they tempt and provoke God Most High, And His testimonies have not kept.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And they turn back, And deal treacherously like their fathers, They have been turned like a deceitful bow,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And make Him angry with their high places, And with their graven images make Him zealous,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> God hath heard, and sheweth Himself wroth. And kicketh exceedingly against Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And He leaveth the tabernacle of Shiloh, The tent He had placed among men,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And He giveth His strength to captivity, And His beauty into the hand of an adversary,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> And delivereth up to the sword His people, And with His inheritance shewed Himself angry.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> His young men hath fire consumed, And His virgins have not been praised.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> His priests by the sword have fallen, And their widows weep not.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> And the Lord waketh as a sleeper, As a mighty one crying aloud from wine.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And He smiteth His adversaries backward, A reproach age-during He hath put on them,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> And He kicketh against the tent of Joseph, And on the tribe of Ephraim hath not fixed.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> And He chooseth the tribe of Judah, With mount Zion that He loved,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> And buildeth His sanctuary as a high place, Like the earth, He founded it to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> And He fixeth on David His servant, And taketh him from the folds of a flock,</p>

<p><a id="c78_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> From behind suckling ones He hath brought him in, To rule over Jacob His people, And over Israel His inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c78_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> And he ruleth them according to the integrity of his heart, And by the skilfulness of his hands leadeth them!</p>

</body>
</html>