<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 45</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 45</h2>

<p><a id="c45_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`On the Lilies.' --By sons of Korah. --An Instruction. --A song of loves. My heart hath indited a good thing, I am telling my works to a king, My tongue [is] the pen of a speedy writer.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast been beautified above the sons of men, Grace hath been poured into thy lips, Therefore hath God blessed thee to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Gird Thy sword upon the thigh, O mighty, Thy glory and Thy majesty!</p>

<p><a id="c45_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As to Thy majesty--prosper! --ride! Because of truth, and meekness--righteousness, And Thy right hand showeth Thee fearful things.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thine arrows [are] sharp, --Peoples fall under Thee--In the heart of the enemies of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy throne, O God, [is] age-during, and for ever, A sceptre of uprightness [Is] the sceptre of Thy kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou hast loved righteousness and hatest wickedness, Therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee, Oil of joy above thy companions.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Myrrh and aloes, cassia! all thy garments, Out of palaces of ivory Stringed instruments have made thee glad.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Daughters of kings [are] among thy precious ones, A queen hath stood at thy right hand, In pure gold of Ophir.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hearken, O daughter, and see, incline thine ear, And forget thy people, and thy father's house,</p>

<p><a id="c45_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the king doth desire thy beauty, Because he [is] thy lord--bow thyself to him,</p>

<p><a id="c45_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the daughter of Tyre with a present, The rich of the people do appease thy face.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> All glory [is] the daughter of the king within, Of gold-embroidered work [is] her clothing.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In divers colours she is brought to the king, Virgins--after her--her companions, Are brought to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They are brought with joy and gladness, They come into the palace of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Instead of thy fathers are thy sons, Thou dost appoint them for princes in all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I make mention of Thy name in all generations, Therefore do peoples praise Thee, To the age, and for ever!</p>

</body>
</html>