<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By David. Unto Thee, O Jehovah, my soul I lift up.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My God, in Thee I have trusted, Let me not be ashamed, Let not mine enemies exult over me.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also let none waiting on Thee be ashamed, Let the treacherous dealers without cause be ashamed.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy ways, O Jehovah, cause me to know, Thy paths teach Thou me.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Cause me to tread in Thy truth, and teach me, For Thou [art] the God of my salvation, Near Thee I have waited all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Remember Thy mercies, O Jehovah, And Thy kindnesses, for from the age [are] they.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Sins of my youth, and my transgressions, Do not Thou remember. According to Thy kindness be mindful of me, For Thy goodness' sake, O Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Good and upright [is] Jehovah, Therefore He directeth sinners in the way.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He causeth the humble to tread in judgment, And teacheth the humble His way.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All the paths of Jehovah [are] kindness and truth, To those keeping His covenant, And His testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For Thy name's sake, O Jehovah, Thou hast pardoned mine iniquity, for it [is] great.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who [is] this--the man fearing Jehovah? He directeth him in the way He doth choose.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His soul in good doth remain, And his seed doth possess the land.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The secret of Jehovah [is] for those fearing Him, And His covenant--to cause them to know.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Mine eyes [are] continually unto Jehovah, For He bringeth out from a net my feet.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Turn Thou unto me, and favour me, For lonely and afflicted [am] I.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The distresses of my heart have enlarged themselves, From my distresses bring me out.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> See mine affliction and my misery, And bear with all my sins.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> See my enemies, for they have been many, And with violent hatred they have hated me.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Keep my soul, and deliver me, Let me not be ashamed, for I trusted in Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Integrity and uprightness do keep me, For I have waited [on] Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Redeem Israel, O God, from all his distresses!</p>

</body>
</html>