<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --An Instruction. By sons of Korah. As a hart doth pant for streams of water, So my soul panteth toward Thee, O God.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul thirsted for God, for the living God, When do I enter and see the face of God?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My tear hath been to me bread day and night, In their saying unto me all the day, `Where [is] thy God?'</p>

<p><a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These I remember, and pour out my soul in me, For I pass over into the booth, I go softly with them unto the house of God, With the voice of singing and confession, The multitude keeping feast!</p>

<p><a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> What! bowest thou thyself, O my soul? Yea, art thou troubled within me? Wait for God, for still I confess Him: The salvation of my countenance--My God!</p>

<p><a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In me doth my soul bow itself, Therefore I remember Thee from the land of Jordan, And of the Hermons, from the hill Mizar.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Deep unto deep is calling At the noise of Thy water-spouts, All Thy breakers and Thy billows passed over me.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> By day Jehovah commandeth His kindness, And by night a song [is] with me, A prayer to the God of my life.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I say to God my rock, `Why hast Thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning in the oppression of an enemy?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With a sword in my bones Have mine adversaries reproached me, In their saying unto me all the day, `Where [is] thy God?'</p>

<p><a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> What! bowest thou thyself, O my soul? And what! art thou troubled within me? Wait for God, for still I confess Him, The salvation of my countenance, and my God!</p>

</body>
</html>