<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 136</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 136</h2>

<p><a id="c136_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ye thanks to Jehovah, For good, for to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Give ye thanks to the God of gods, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Give ye thanks to the Lord of lords, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To Him doing great wonders by Himself alone, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To Him making the heavens by understanding, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> To Him spreading the earth over the waters, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To Him making great lights, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sun to rule by day, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The moon and stars to rule by night, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> To Him smiting Egypt in their first-born, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And bringing forth Israel from their midst, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By a strong hand, and a stretched-out-arm, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> To Him cutting the sea of Suph into parts, For to the age [is] His kindness,</p>

<p><a id="c136_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And caused Israel to pass through its midst, For to the age [is] His kindness,</p>

<p><a id="c136_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And shook out Pharaoh and his force in the sea of Suph, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To Him leading His people in a wilderness, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> To Him smiting great kings, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yea, He doth slay honourable kings, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Even Sihon king of the Amorite, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Og king of Bashan, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And He gave their land for inheritance, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> An inheritance to Israel His servant, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who in our lowliness hath remembered us, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And He delivereth us from our adversaries, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Giving food to all flesh, For to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c136_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Give ye thanks to the God of the heavens, For to the age [is] His kindness!</p>

</body>
</html>