<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 46</h2>

<p><a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --By sons of Korah. `For the Virgins.' --A song. God [is] to us a refuge and strength, A help in adversities found most surely.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore we fear not in the changing of earth, And in the slipping of mountains Into the heart of the seas.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Roar--troubled are its waters, Mountains they shake in its pride. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A river--its rivulets rejoice the city of God, Thy holy place of the tabernacles of the Most High.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God [is] in her midst--she is not moved, God doth help her at the turn of the morn!</p>

<p><a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Troubled have been nations, Moved have been kingdoms, He hath given forth with His voice, earth melteth.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah of Hosts [is] with us, A tower for us [is] the God of Jacob. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Come ye, see the works of Jehovah, Who hath done astonishing things in the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Causing wars to cease, Unto the end of the earth, the bow he shivereth, And the spear He hath cut asunder, Chariots he doth burn with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Desist, and know that I [am] God, I am exalted among nations, I am exalted in the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah of hosts [is] with us, A tower for us [is] the God of Jacob! Selah.</p>

</body>
</html>