<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By David. Do not fret because of evil doers, Be not envious against doers of iniquity,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For as grass speedily they are cut off, And as the greenness of the tender grass do fade.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Trust in Jehovah, and do good, Dwell [in] the land, and enjoy faithfulness,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And delight thyself on Jehovah, And He giveth to thee the petitions of thy heart.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Roll on Jehovah thy way, And trust upon Him, and He worketh,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And hath brought out as light thy righteousness, And thy judgment as noon-day.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be silent for Jehovah, and stay thyself for Him, Do not fret because of him Who is making prosperous his way, Because of a man doing wicked devices.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Desist from anger, and forsake fury, Fret not thyself only to do evil.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For evil doers are cut off, As to those waiting on Jehovah, they possess the land.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And yet a little, and the wicked is not, And thou hast considered his place, and it is not.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the humble do possess the land, And they have delighted themselves In the abundance of peace.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wicked is devising against the righteous, And gnashing against him his teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Lord doth laugh at him, For He hath seen that his day cometh.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A sword have the wicked opened, And they have trodden their bow, To cause to fall the poor and needy, To slaughter the upright of the way.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Their sword doth enter into their own heart, And their bows are shivered.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Better [is] the little of the righteous, Than the store of many wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the arms of the wicked are shivered, And Jehovah is sustaining the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jehovah knoweth the days of the perfect, And their inheritance is--to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They are not ashamed in a time of evil, And in days of famine they are satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the wicked perish, and the enemies of Jehovah, As the preciousness of lambs, Have been consumed, In smoke they have been consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The wicked is borrowing and repayeth not, And the righteous is gracious and giving.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For His blessed ones do possess the land, And His reviled ones are cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> From Jehovah [are] the steps of a man, They have been prepared, And his way he desireth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When he falleth, he is not cast down, For Jehovah is sustaining his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Young I have been, I have also become old, And I have not seen the righteous forsaken, And his seed seeking bread.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All the day he is gracious and lending, And his seed [is] for a blessing.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Turn aside from evil, and do good, and dwell to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For Jehovah is loving judgment, And He doth not forsake His saintly ones, To the age they have been kept, And the seed of the wicked is cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The righteous possess the land, And they dwell for ever on it.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The mouth of the righteous uttereth wisdom, And his tongue speaketh judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The law of his God [is] his heart, His steps do not slide.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The wicked is watching for the righteous, And is seeking to put him to death.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Jehovah doth not leave him in his hand, Nor condemn him in his being judged.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Look unto Jehovah, and keep His way, And He doth exalt thee to possess the land, In the wicked being cut off--thou seest!</p>

<p><a id="c37_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I have seen the wicked terrible, And spreading as a green native plant,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he passeth away, and lo, he is not, And I seek him, and he is not found!</p>

<p><a id="c37_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Observe the perfect, and see the upright, For the latter end of each [is] peace.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And transgressors were destroyed together, The latter end of the wicked was cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the salvation of the righteous [is] from Jehovah, Their strong place in a time of adversity.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Jehovah doth help them and deliver them, He delivereth them from the wicked, And saveth them, Because they trusted in Him!</p>

</body>
</html>