<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By David, in his changing his behaviour before Abimelech, and he driveth him away, and he goeth. I do bless Jehovah at all times, Continually His praise [is] in my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In Jehovah doth my soul boast herself, Hear do the humble and rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Ascribe ye greatness to Jehovah with me, And we exalt His name together.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I sought Jehovah, and He answered me, And from all my fears did deliver me.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They looked expectingly unto Him, And they became bright, And their faces are not ashamed.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This poor [one] called, and Jehovah heard, And from all his distresses saved him.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A messenger of Jehovah is encamping, Round about those who fear Him, And He armeth them.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Taste ye and see that Jehovah [is] good, O the happiness of the man who trusteth in Him.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Fear Jehovah, ye His holy ones, For there is no lack to those fearing Him.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Young lions have lacked and been hungry, And those seeking Jehovah lack not any good,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Come ye, children, hearken to me, The fear of Jehovah I do teach you.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who [is] the man that is desiring life? Loving days to see good?</p>

<p><a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Keep thy tongue from evil, And thy lips from speaking deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Turn aside from evil and do good, Seek peace and pursue it.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eyes of Jehovah [are] unto the righteous, And His ears unto their cry.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> (The face of Jehovah [is] on doers of evil, To cut off from earth their memorial.)</p>

<p><a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They cried, and Jehovah heard, And from all their distresses delivered them.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Near [is] Jehovah to the broken of heart, And the bruised of spirit He saveth.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Many [are] the evils of the righteous, Out of them all doth Jehovah deliver him.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He is keeping all his bones, One of them hath not been broken.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Evil doth put to death the wicked, And those hating the righteous are desolate.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Jehovah redeemeth the soul of His servants, And none trusting in Him are desolate!</p>

</body>
</html>