<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 50</h2>

<p><a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of Asaph. The God of gods--Jehovah--hath spoken, And He calleth to the earth From the rising of the sun unto its going in.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> From Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shone.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Our God cometh, and is not silent, Fire before Him doth devour, And round about him it hath been very tempestuous.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He doth call unto the heavens from above, And unto the earth, to judge His people.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Gather ye to Me My saints, Making covenant with Me over a sacrifice.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the heavens declare His righteousness, For God Himself [is] judge. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear, O My people, and I speak, O Israel, and I testify against thee, God, thy God [am] I.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Not for thy sacrifices do I reprove thee, Yea, thy burnt-offerings [Are] before Me continually.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I take not from thy house a bullock, From thy folds he goats.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For Mine [is] every beast of the forest, The cattle on the hills of oxen.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have known every fowl of the mountains, And the wild beast of the field [is] with Me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If I am hungry I tell not to thee, For Mine [is] the world and its fulness.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Do I eat the flesh of bulls, And drink the blood of he-goats?</p>

<p><a id="c50_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Sacrifice to God confession, And complete to the Most High thy vows.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And call Me in a day of adversity, I deliver thee, and thou honourest Me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And to the wicked hath God said: What to thee--to recount My statutes? That thou liftest up My covenant on thy mouth?</p>

<p><a id="c50_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yea, thou hast hated instruction, And dost cast My words behind thee.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If thou hast seen a thief, Then thou art pleased with him, And with adulterers [is] thy portion.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy mouth thou hast sent forth with evil, And thy tongue joineth deceit together,</p>

<p><a id="c50_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou sittest, against thy brother thou speakest, Against a son of thy mother givest slander.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> These thou didst, and I kept silent, Thou hast thought that I am like thee, I reprove thee, and set in array before thine eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Understand this, I pray you, Ye who are forgetting God, Lest I tear, and there is no deliverer.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He who is sacrificing praise honoureth Me, As to him who maketh a way, I cause him to look on the salvation of God!</p>

</body>
</html>