<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 88</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 88</h2>

<p><a id="c88_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Song, a Psalm, by sons of Korah, to the Overseer, `Concerning the Sickness of Afflictions.' --An instruction, by Heman the Ezrahite. O Jehovah, God of my salvation, Daily I have cried, nightly before Thee,</p>

<p><a id="c88_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My prayer cometh in before Thee, Incline Thine ear to my loud cry,</p>

<p><a id="c88_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my soul hath been full of evils, And my life hath come to Sheol.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have been reckoned with those going down [to] the pit, I have been as a man without strength.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Among the dead--free, As pierced ones lying in the grave, Whom Thou hast not remembered any more, Yea, they by Thy hand have been cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou hast put me in the lowest pit, In dark places, in depths.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Upon me hath Thy fury lain, And [with] all Thy breakers Thou hast afflicted. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast put mine acquaintance far from me, Thou hast made me an abomination to them, Shut up--I go not forth.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Mine eye hath grieved because of affliction, I called Thee, O Jehovah, all the day, I have spread out unto Thee my hands.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> To the dead dost Thou do wonders? Do Rephaim rise? do they thank Thee? Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Is Thy kindness recounted in the grave? Thy faithfulness in destruction?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Are Thy wonders known in the darkness? And Thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?</p>

<p><a id="c88_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I, unto Thee, O Jehovah, I have cried, And in the morning doth my prayer come before Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Why, O Jehovah, castest Thou off my soul? Thou hidest Thy face from me.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I [am] afflicted, and expiring from youth, I have borne Thy terrors--I pine away.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Over me hath Thy wrath passed, Thy terrors have cut me off,</p>

<p><a id="c88_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They have surrounded me as waters all the day, They have gone round against me together,</p>

<p><a id="c88_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou hast put far from me lover and friend, Mine acquaintance [is] the place of darkness!</p>

</body>
</html>