<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 71</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 71</h2>

<p><a id="c71_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In Thee, O Jehovah, I have trusted, Let me not be ashamed to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In Thy righteousness Thou dost deliver me, And dost cause me to escape, Incline unto me Thine ear, and save me.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be to me for a rock--a habitation, To go in continually, Thou hast given command to save me, For my rock and my bulwark [art] Thou.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> O my God, cause me to escape From the hand of the wicked, From the hand of the perverse and violent.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Thou [art] my hope, O Lord Jehovah, My trust from my youth.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By Thee I have been supported from the womb, From my mother's bowels Thou dost cut me out, In Thee [is] my praise continually.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As a wonder I have been to many, And Thou [art] my strong refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Filled is my mouth [with] Thy praise, All the day [with] Thy beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Cast me not off at the time of old age, According to the consumption of my power forsake me not.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For mine enemies have spoken against me, And those watching my soul have taken counsel together,</p>

<p><a id="c71_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Saying, `God hath forsaken him, Pursue and catch him, for there is no deliverer.'</p>

<p><a id="c71_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O God, be not far from me, O my God, for my help make haste.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They are ashamed, they are consumed, Who are opposing my soul, They are covered [with] reproach and blushing, Who are seeking my evil,</p>

<p><a id="c71_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I continually do wait with hope, And have added unto all Thy praise.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My mouth recounteth Thy righteousness, All the day Thy salvation, For I have not known the numbers.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I come in the might of the Lord Jehovah, I mention Thy righteousness--Thine only.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> God, Thou hast taught me from my youth, And hitherto I declare Thy wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And also unto old age and grey hairs, O God, forsake me not, Till I declare Thy strength to a generation, To every one that cometh Thy might.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Thy righteousness, O God, [is] unto the heights, Because Thou hast done great things, O God, who [is] like Thee?</p>

<p><a id="c71_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Because Thou hast showed me many and sad distresses, Thou turnest back--Thou revivest me, And from the depths of the earth, Thou turnest back--Thou bringest me up.</p>

<p><a id="c71_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou dost increase my greatness, And Thou surroundest--Thou comfortest me,</p>

<p><a id="c71_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I also thank Thee with a vessel of psaltery, Thy truth, O my God, I sing to Thee with a harp, O Holy One of Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c71_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> My lips cry aloud when I sing praise to Thee, And my soul that Thou hast redeemed,</p>

<p><a id="c71_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My tongue also all the day uttereth Thy righteousness, Because ashamed--because confounded, Have been those seeking my evil!</p>

</body>
</html>