<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 56</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 56</h2>

<p><a id="c56_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`On the Dumb Dove far off.' --A secret treasure of David, in the Philistines' taking hold of him in Gath. Favour me, O God, for man swallowed me up, All the day fighting he oppresseth me,</p>

<p><a id="c56_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Mine enemies have swallowed up all the day, For many [are] fighting against me, O most High,</p>

<p><a id="c56_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The day I am afraid I am confident toward Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In God I praise His word, in God I have trusted, I fear not what flesh doth to me.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All the day they wrest my words, Concerning me all their thoughts [are] for evil,</p>

<p><a id="c56_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They assemble, they hide, they watch my heels, When they have expected my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> By iniquity they escape, In anger the peoples put down, O God.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My wandering Thou hast counted, Thou--place Thou my tear in Thy bottle, Are they not in Thy book?</p>

<p><a id="c56_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then turn back do mine enemies in the day I call. This I have known, that God [is] for me.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In God I praise the word, In Jehovah I praise the word.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In God I trusted, I fear not what man doth to me,</p>

<p><a id="c56_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> On me, O God, [are] Thy vows, I repay thank-offerings to Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c56_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For Thou hast delivered my soul from death, Dost Thou not my feet from falling? To walk habitually before God in the light of the living!</p>

</body>
</html>