<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By David. Strive, Jehovah, with my strivers, fight with my fighters,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take hold of shield and buckler, and rise for my help,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And draw out spear and lance, To meet my pursuers. Say to my soul, `Thy salvation I [am].'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They are ashamed and blush, those seeking my soul, Turned backward and confounded, Those devising my evil.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are as chaff before wind, And a messenger of Jehovah driving away.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Their way is darkness and slipperiness, And a messenger of Jehovah their pursuer.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For without cause they hid for me their netpit, Without cause they digged for my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Meet him doth desolation--he knoweth not, And his net that he hid catcheth him, For desolation he falleth into it.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And my soul is joyful in Jehovah, It rejoiceth in His salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All my bones say, `Jehovah, who is like Thee, Delivering the poor from the stronger than he, And the poor and needy from his plunderer.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Violent witnesses rise up, That which I have not known they ask me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They pay me evil for good, bereaving my soul,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I--in their sickness my clothing [is] sackcloth, I have humbled with fastings my soul, And my prayer unto my bosom returneth.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As [if] a friend, as [if] my brother, I walked habitually, As a mourner for a mother, Mourning I have bowed down.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And--in my halting they have rejoiced, And have been gathered together, Gathered against me were the smiters, And I have not known, They have rent, and they have not ceased;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With profane ones, mockers in feasts, Gnashing against me their teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Lord, how long dost thou behold? Keep back my soul from their desolations, From young lions my only one.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I thank Thee in a great assembly, Among a mighty people I praise Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Mine enemies rejoice not over me [with] falsehood, Those hating me without cause wink the eye.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For they speak not peace, And against the quiet of the land, Deceitful words they devise,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they enlarge against me their mouth, They said, `Aha, aha, our eye hath seen.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou hast seen, O Jehovah, Be not silent, O Lord--be not far from me,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Stir up, and wake to my judgment, My God, and my Lord, to my plea.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Judge me according to Thy righteousness, O Jehovah my God, And they do not rejoice over me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They do not say in their heart, `Aha, our desire.' They do not say, `We swallowed him up.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They are ashamed and confounded together, Who are rejoicing at my evil. They put on shame and confusion, Who are magnifying themselves against me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They sing and rejoice, who are desiring my righteousness, And they say continually, `Jehovah is magnified, Who is desiring the peace of His servant.'</p>

<p><a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And my tongue uttereth Thy righteousness, All the day Thy praise!</p>

</body>
</html>