<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 145</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 145</h2>

<p><a id="c145_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise by David. I exalt Thee, my God, O king, And bless Thy name to the age and for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every day do I bless Thee, And praise Thy name to the age and for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Great [is] Jehovah, and praised greatly, And of His greatness there is no searching.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Generation to generation praiseth Thy works, And Thy mighty acts they declare.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The honour--the glory of Thy majesty, And the matters of Thy wonders I declare.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the strength of Thy fearful acts they tell, And Thy greatness I recount.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The memorial of the abundance of Thy goodness they send forth. And Thy righteousness they sing.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Gracious and merciful [is] Jehovah, Slow to anger, and great in kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Good [is] Jehovah to all, And His mercies [are] over all His works.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Confess Thee O Jehovah, do all Thy works, And Thy saints do bless Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The honour of Thy kingdom they tell, And [of] Thy might they speak,</p>

<p><a id="c145_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To make known to sons of men His mighty acts, The honour of the majesty of His kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy kingdom [is] a kingdom of all ages, And Thy dominion [is] in all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah is supporting all who are falling, And raising up all who are bowed down.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eyes of all unto Thee do look, And Thou art giving to them their food in its season,</p>

<p><a id="c145_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Opening Thy hand, and satisfying The desire of every living thing.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Righteous [is] Jehovah in all His ways, And kind in all His works.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Near [is] Jehovah to all those calling Him, To all who call Him in truth.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The desire of those fearing Him He doth, And their cry He heareth, and saveth them.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Jehovah preserveth all those loving Him, And all the wicked He destroyeth.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The praise of Jehovah my mouth speaketh, And all flesh doth bless His holy name, To the age and for ever!</p>

</body>
</html>