<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm of David. The heavens [are] recounting the honour of God, And the work of His hands The expanse [is] declaring.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Day to day uttereth speech, And night to night sheweth knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> There is no speech, and there are no words. Their voice hath not been heard.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Into all the earth hath their line gone forth, And to the end of the world their sayings, For the sun He placed a tent in them,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he, as a bridegroom, goeth out from his covering, He rejoiceth as a mighty one To run the path.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> From the end of the heavens [is] his going out, And his revolution [is] unto their ends, And nothing is hid from his heat.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The law of Jehovah [is] perfect, refreshing the soul, The testimonies of Jehovah [are] stedfast, Making wise the simple,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The precepts of Jehovah [are] upright, Rejoicing the heart, The command of Jehovah [is] pure, enlightening the eyes,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The fear of Jehovah [is] clean, standing to the age, The judgments of Jehovah [are] true, They have been righteous--together.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They are more desirable than gold, Yea, than much fine gold; and sweeter than honey, Even liquid honey of the comb.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Also--Thy servant is warned by them, `In keeping them [is] a great reward.'</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Errors! who doth understand? From hidden ones declare me innocent,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Also--from presumptuous ones keep back Thy servant, Let them not rule over me, Then am I perfect, And declared innocent of much transgression,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let the sayings of my mouth, And the meditation of my heart, Be for a pleasing thing before Thee, O Jehovah, my rock, and my redeemer!</p>

</body>
</html>