<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 116</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 116</h2>

<p><a id="c116_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I have loved, because Jehovah heareth My voice, my supplication,</p>

<p><a id="c116_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Because He hath inclined His ear to me, And during my days I call.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Compassed me have cords of death, And straits of Sheol have found me, Distress and sorrow I find.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And in the name of Jehovah I call: I pray Thee, O Jehovah, deliver my soul,</p>

<p><a id="c116_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Gracious [is] Jehovah, and righteous, Yea, our God [is] merciful,</p>

<p><a id="c116_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A preserver of the simple [is] Jehovah, I was low, and to me He giveth salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Turn back, O my soul, to thy rest, For Jehovah hath conferred benefits on thee.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Thou hast delivered my soul from death, My eyes from tears, my feet from overthrowing.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I walk habitually before Jehovah In the lands of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have believed, for I speak, I--I have been afflicted greatly.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I said in my haste, `Every man [is] a liar.'</p>

<p><a id="c116_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What do I return to Jehovah? All His benefits [are] upon me.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The cup of salvation I lift up, And in the name of Jehovah I call.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My vows to Jehovah let me complete, I pray you, before all His people.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Precious in the eyes of Jehovah [is] the death for His saints.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Cause [it] to come, O Jehovah, for I [am] Thy servant. I [am] Thy servant, son of Thy handmaid, Thou hast opened my bonds.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> To Thee I sacrifice a sacrifice of thanks, And in the name of Jehovah I call.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> My vows to Jehovah let me complete, I pray you, before all His people,</p>

<p><a id="c116_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the courts of the house of Jehovah, In thy midst, O Jerusalem, praise ye Jah!</p>

</body>
</html>