<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer, to Jeduthun. --A Psalm of David. I have said, `I observe my ways, Against sinning with my tongue, I keep for my mouth a curb, while the wicked [is] before me.'</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I was dumb [with] silence, I kept silent from good, and my pain is excited.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Hot [is] my heart within me, In my meditating doth the fire burn, I have spoken with my tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `Cause me to know, O Jehovah, mine end, And the measure of my days--what it [is],' I know how frail I [am].</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lo, handbreadths Thou hast made my days, And mine age [is] as nothing before Thee, Only, all vanity [is] every man set up. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Only, in an image doth each walk habitually, Only, [in] vain, they are disquieted, He heapeth up and knoweth not who gathereth them.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And, now, what have I expected? O Lord, my hope--it [is] of Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> From all my transgressions deliver me, A reproach of the fool make me not.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have been dumb, I open not my mouth, Because Thou--Thou hast done [it].</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Turn aside from off me Thy stroke, From the striving of Thy hand I have been consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> With reproofs against iniquity, Thou hast corrected man, And dost waste as a moth his desirableness, Only, vanity [is] every man. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hear my prayer, O Jehovah, And [to] my cry give ear, Unto my tear be not silent, For a sojourner I [am] with Thee, A settler like all my fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Look from me, and I brighten up before I go and am not!</p>

</body>
</html>