<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 57</h2>

<p><a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`Destroy not.' --A secret treasure of David, in his fleeing from the face of Saul into a cave. Favour me, O God, favour me, For in Thee is my soul trusting, And in the shadow of Thy wings I trust, Until the calamities passover.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I call to God Most High, To God [who] is perfecting for me.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He sendeth from the heaven, and saveth me, He reproached--who is panting after me. Selah. God sendeth forth His kindness and His truth.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My soul [is] in the midst of lions, I lie down [among] flames--sons of men, Their teeth [are] a spear and arrows, And their tongue a sharp sword.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Be Thou exalted above the heavens, O God, Above all the earth Thine honour.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A net they have prepared for my steps, Bowed down hath my soul, They have digged before me a pit, They have fallen into its midst. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Prepared is my heart, O God, Prepared is my heart, I sing and praise.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Awake, mine honour, awake, psaltery and harp, I awake the morning dawn.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I thank Thee among the peoples, O Lord, I praise Thee among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For great unto the heavens [is] Thy kindness, And unto the clouds Thy truth.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be thou exalted above the heavens, O God. Above all the earth Thine honour!</p>

</body>
</html>