<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why, Jehovah, dost Thou stand at a distance? Thou dost hide in times of adversity,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Through the pride of the wicked, Is the poor inflamed, They are caught in devices that they devised.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Because the wicked hath boasted Of the desire of his soul, And a dishonest gainer he hath blessed, He hath despised Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The wicked according to the height of his face, inquireth not. `God is not!' [are] all his devices.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Pain do his ways at all times, On high [are] Thy judgments before him, All his adversaries--he puffeth at them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He hath said in his heart, `I am not moved,' To generation and generation not in evil.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Of oaths his mouth is full, And deceits, and fraud: Under his tongue [is] perverseness and iniquity,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He doth sit in an ambush of the villages, In secret places he doth slay the innocent. His eyes for the afflicted watch secretly,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He lieth in wait in a secret place, as a lion in a covert. He lieth in wait to catch the poor, He catcheth the poor, drawing him into his net.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He is bruised--he boweth down, Fallen by his mighty ones hath the afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He said in his heart, `God hath forgotten, He hath hid His face, He hath never seen.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Arise, O Jehovah! O God, lift up Thy hand! Forget not the humble.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Wherefore hath the wicked despised God? He hath said in his heart, `It is not required.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou hast seen, For Thou perverseness and anger beholdest; By giving into Thy hand, On Thee doth the afflicted leave [it], Of the fatherless Thou hast been an helper.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Break the arm of the wicked and the evil, Seek out his wickedness, find none;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jehovah [is] king to the age, and for ever, The nations have perished out of His land!</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The desire of the humble Thou hast heard, O Jehovah. Thou preparest their heart; Thou causest Thine ear to attend,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To judge the fatherless and bruised: He addeth no more to oppress--man of the earth!</p>

</body>
</html>