<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 83</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 83</h2>

<p><a id="c83_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Song, --A Psalm of Asaph. O God, let there be no silence to Thee, Be not silent, nor be quiet, O God.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For, lo, Thine enemies do roar, And those hating Thee have lifted up the head,</p>

<p><a id="c83_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Against Thy people they take crafty counsel, And consult against Thy hidden ones.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have said, `Come, And we cut them off from [being] a nation, And the name of Israel is not remembered any more.'</p>

<p><a id="c83_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For they consulted in heart together, Against Thee a covenant they make,</p>

<p><a id="c83_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Tents of Edom, and Ishmaelites, Moab, and the Hagarenes,</p>

<p><a id="c83_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek, Philistia with inhabitants of Tyre,</p>

<p><a id="c83_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Asshur also is joined with them, They have been an arm to sons of Lot. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do to them as [to] Midian, As [to] Sisera, as [to] Jabin, at the stream Kishon.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They were destroyed at Endor, They were dung for the ground!</p>

<p><a id="c83_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Make their nobles as Oreb and as Zeeb, And as Zebah and Zalmunna all their princes,</p>

<p><a id="c83_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who have said, `Let us occupy for ourselves The comely places of God.'</p>

<p><a id="c83_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O my God, make them as a rolling thing, As stubble before wind.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As a fire doth burn a forest, And as a flame setteth hills on fire,</p>

<p><a id="c83_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So dost Thou pursue them with Thy whirlwind, And with Thy hurricane troublest them.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Fill their faces [with] shame, And they seek Thy name, O Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They are ashamed and troubled for ever, Yea, they are confounded and lost.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they know that Thou--(Thy name [is] Jehovah--by Thyself,) [Art] the Most High over all the earth!</p>

</body>
</html>