<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Prayer of David. Hear, O Jehovah, righteousness, attend my cry, Give ear [to] my prayer, without lips of deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> From before thee my judgment doth go out; Thine eyes do see uprightly.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast proved my heart, Thou hast inspected by night, Thou hast tried me, Thou findest nothing; My thoughts pass not over my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As to doings of man, Through a word of Thy lips I have observed The paths of a destroyer;</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To uphold my goings in Thy paths, My steps have not slidden.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I--I called Thee, for Thou dost answer me, O God, incline Thine ear to me, hear my speech.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Separate wonderfully Thy kindness, O Saviour of the confiding, By Thy right hand, from withstanders.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Keep me as the apple, the daughter of the eye; In shadow of Thy wings thou dost hide me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the face of the wicked who spoiled me. Mine enemies in soul go round against me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Their fat they have closed up, Their mouths have spoken with pride:</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `Our steps now have compassed [him];' Their eyes they set to turn aside in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His likeness as a lion desirous to tear, As a young lion dwelling in secret places.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Arise, O Jehovah, go before his face, Cause him to bend. Deliver my soul from the wicked, Thy sword,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From men, Thy hand, O Jehovah, From men of the world, their portion [is] in life, And [with] Thy hidden things Thou fillest their belly, They are satisfied [with] sons; And have left their abundance to their sucklings.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I--in righteousness, I see Thy face; I am satisfied, in awaking, [with] Thy form!</p>

</body>
</html>