<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 104</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 104</h2>

<p><a id="c104_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bless, O my soul, Jehovah! Jehovah, my God, Thou hast been very great, Honour and majesty Thou hast put on.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Covering himself [with] light as a garment, Stretching out the heavens as a curtain,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who is laying the beam of His upper chambers in the waters, Who is making thick clouds His chariot, Who is walking on wings of wind,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Making His messengers--the winds, His ministers--the flaming fire.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He hath founded earth on its bases, It is not moved to the age and for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The abyss! as with clothing Thou hast covered it, Above hills do waters stand.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> From Thy rebuke they flee, From the voice of Thy thunder haste away.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They go up hills--they go down valleys, Unto a place Thou hast founded for them.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A border Thou hast set, they pass not over, They turn not back to cover the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is sending forth fountains in valleys, Between hills they go on.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They water every beast of the field, Wild asses break their thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By them the fowl of the heavens doth dwell, From between the branches They give forth the voice.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Watering hills from His upper chambers, From the fruit of Thy works is the earth satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Causing grass to spring up for cattle, And herb for the service of man, To bring forth bread from the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And wine--it rejoiceth the heart of man, To cause the face to shine from oil, And bread--the heart of man it supporteth.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Satisfied [are] the trees of Jehovah, Cedars of Lebanon that He hath planted,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Where birds do make nests, The stork--the firs [are] her house.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The high hills [are] for wild goats, Rocks [are] a refuge for conies,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He made the moon for seasons, The sun hath known his place of entrance.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou settest darkness, and it is night, In it doth every beast of the forest creep.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The young lions are roaring for prey, And to seek from God their food.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sun riseth, they are gathered, And in their dens they crouch.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Man goeth forth to his work, And to his service--till evening.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> How many have been Thy works, O Jehovah, All of them in wisdom Thou hast made, Full is the earth of thy possessions.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> This, the sea, great and broad of sides, There [are] moving things--innumerable, Living creatures--small with great.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There do ships go: leviathan, That Thou hast formed to play in it.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All of them unto Thee do look, To give their food in its season.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou dost give to them--they gather, Thou dost open Thy hand--they [are] satisfied [with] good.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Thou hidest Thy face--they are troubled, Thou gatherest their spirit--they expire, And unto their dust they turn back.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Thou sendest out Thy Spirit, they are created, And Thou renewest the face of the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The honour of Jehovah is to the age, Jehovah rejoiceth in His works,</p>

<p><a id="c104_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Who is looking to earth, and it trembleth, He cometh against hills, and they smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I sing to Jehovah during my life, I sing praise to my God while I exist.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Sweet is my meditation on Him, I--I do rejoice in Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Consumed are sinners from the earth, And the wicked are no more. Bless, O my soul, Jehovah. Praise ye Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>