<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 107</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 107</h2>

<p><a id="c107_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `Give ye thanks to Jehovah, For good, for to the age [is] His kindness:'</p>

<p><a id="c107_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let the redeemed of Jehovah say, Whom He redeemed from the hand of an adversary.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And from the lands hath gathered them, From east and from west, From north, and from the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They wandered in a wilderness, in a desert by the way, A city of habitation they have not found.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hungry--yea--thirsty, Their soul in them becometh feeble,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they cry unto Jehovah in their adversity, From their distress He delivereth them,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And causeth them to tread in a right way, To go unto a city of habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They confess to Jehovah His kindness, And His wonders to the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For He hath satisfied a longing soul, And a hungry soul hath filled [with] goodness.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Inhabitants of dark places and death-shade, Prisoners of affliction and of iron,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because they changed the saying of God, And the counsel of the Most High despised.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And He humbleth with labour their heart, They have been feeble, and there is no helper.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they cry unto Jehovah in their adversity, From their distresses He saveth them.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He bringeth them out from the dark place, And death-shade, And their bands He draweth away.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They confess to Jehovah His kindness, And His wonders to the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For He hath broken doors of brass, And bars of iron He hath cut.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fools, by means of their transgression, And by their iniquities, afflict themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> All food doth their soul abominate, And they come nigh unto the gates of death,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And cry unto Jehovah in their adversity, From their distresses He saveth them,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He sendeth His word and healeth them, And delivereth from their destructions.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They confess to Jehovah His kindness, And His wonders to the sons of men,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they sacrifice sacrifices of thanksgiving, And recount His works with singing.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Those going down [to] the sea in ships, Doing business in many waters,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They have seen the works of Jehovah, And His wonders in the deep.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And He saith, and appointeth a tempest, And it lifteth up its billows,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They go up [to] the heavens, they go down [to] the depths, Their soul in evil is melted.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They reel to and fro, and move as a drunkard, And all their wisdom is swallowed up.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they cry to Jehovah in their adversity, And from their distresses He bringeth them out.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He establisheth a whirlwind to a calm, And hushed are their billows.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And they rejoice because they are quiet, And He leadeth them to the haven of their desire.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> They confess to Jehovah His kindness, And His wonders to the sons of men,</p>

<p><a id="c107_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they exalt Him in the assembly of the people, And in the seat of the elders praise Him.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He maketh rivers become a wilderness, And fountains of waters become dry land.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> A fruitful land becometh a barren place, For the wickedness of its inhabitants.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He maketh a wilderness become a pool of water, And a dry land become fountains of waters.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And He causeth the hungry to dwell there, And they prepare a city of habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they sow fields, and plant vineyards, And they make fruits of increase.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And He blesseth them, and they multiply exceedingly, And their cattle He doth not diminish.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they are diminished, and bow down, By restraint, evil, and sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He is pouring contempt upon nobles, And causeth them to wander in vacancy--no way.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And setteth on high the needy from affliction, And placeth families as a flock.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The upright do see and rejoice, And all perversity hath shut her mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Who [is] wise, and observeth these? They understand the kind acts of Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>