<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer, on `The Hind of the Morning.' --A Psalm of David. My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me? Far from my salvation, The words of my roaring?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My God, I call by day, and Thou answerest not, And by night, and there is no silence to me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Thou [art] holy, Sitting--the Praise of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In Thee did our fathers trust--they trusted, And Thou dost deliver them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Unto Thee they cried, and were delivered, In Thee they trusted, and were not ashamed.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I [am] a worm, and no man, A reproach of man, and despised of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All beholding me do mock at me, They make free with the lip--shake the head,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `Roll unto Jehovah, He doth deliver him, He doth deliver him, for he delighted in him.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For thou [art] He bringing me forth from the womb, Causing me to trust, On the breasts of my mother.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> On Thee I have been cast from the womb, From the belly of my mother Thou [art] my God.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be not far from me, For adversity is near, for there is no helper.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Many bulls have surrounded me, Mighty ones of Bashan have compassed me,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They have opened against me their mouth, A lion tearing and roaring.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As waters I have been poured out, And separated themselves have all my bones, My heart hath been like wax, It is melted in the midst of my bowels.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Dried up as an earthen vessel is my power, And my tongue is cleaving to my jaws.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And to the dust of death thou appointest me, For surrounded me have dogs, A company of evil doers have compassed me, Piercing my hands and my feet.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I count all my bones--they look expectingly, They look upon me,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They apportion my garments to themselves, And for my clothing they cause a lot to fall.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Thou, O Jehovah, be not far off, O my strength, to help me haste.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Deliver from the sword my soul, From the paw of a dog mine only one.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Save me from the mouth of a lion: --And--from the horns of the high places Thou hast answered me!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I declare Thy name to my brethren, In the midst of the assembly I praise Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ye who fear Jehovah, praise ye Him, All the seed of Jacob, honour ye Him, And be afraid of Him, all ye seed of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For He hath not despised, nor abominated, The affliction of the afflicted, Nor hath He hidden His face from him, And in his crying unto Him He heareth.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Of Thee my praise [is] in the great assembly. My vows I complete before His fearers.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The humble do eat and are satisfied, Praise Jehovah do those seeking Him, Your heart doth live for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Remember and return unto Jehovah, Do all ends of the earth, And before Thee bow themselves, Do all families of the nations,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For to Jehovah [is] the kingdom, And He is ruling among nations.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the fat ones of earth have eaten, And they bow themselves, Before Him bow do all going down to dust, And he [who] hath not revived his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> A seed doth serve Him, It is declared of the Lord to the generation.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> They come and declare His righteousness, To a people that is borne, that He hath made!</p>

</body>
</html>