<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 55</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 55</h2>

<p><a id="c55_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer with stringed instruments. --An instruction, by David. Give ear, O God, [to] my prayer, And hide not from my supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Attend to me, and answer me, I mourn in my meditation, and make a noise,</p>

<p><a id="c55_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Because of the voice of an enemy, Because of the oppression of the wicked, For they cause sorrow to move against me, And in anger they hate me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart is pained within me, And terrors of death have fallen on me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Fear and trembling come in to me, And horror doth cover me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I say, `Who doth give to me a pinion as a dove? I fly away and rest,</p>

<p><a id="c55_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, I move far off, I lodge in a wilderness. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I hasten escape for myself, From a rushing wind, from a whirlwind.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Swallow up, O Lord, divide their tongue, For I saw violence and strife in a city.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> By day and by night they go round it, on its walls. Both iniquity and perverseness [are] in its midst,</p>

<p><a id="c55_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Mischiefs [are] in its midst. Fraud and deceit depart not from its street.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For an enemy reproacheth me not, or I bear [it], He who is hating me Hath not magnified himself against me, Or I hide from him.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But thou, a man--as mine equal, My familiar friend, and mine acquaintance.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When together we sweeten counsel, Into the house of God we walk in company.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Desolations [are] upon them, They go down [to] Sheol--alive, For wickedness [is] in their dwelling, in their midst.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I--to God I call, and Jehovah saveth me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Evening, and morning, and noon, I meditate, and make a noise, and He heareth my voice,</p>

<p><a id="c55_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He hath ransomed in peace my soul From him who is near to me, For with the multitude they were with me.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God doth hear and afflict them, And He sitteth of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, and fear not God,</p>

<p><a id="c55_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He hath sent forth his hands against his well-wishers, He hath polluted his covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Sweeter than honey hath been his mouth, And his heart [is] war! Softer have been his words than oil, And they [are] drawn [swords].</p>

<p><a id="c55_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Cast on Jehovah that which He hath given thee, And He doth sustain thee, He doth not suffer for ever the moving of the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Thou, O God, dost bring them down To a pit of destruction, Men of blood and deceit reach not to half their days, And I--I do trust in Thee!</p>

</body>
</html>