<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 51</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 51</h2>

<p><a id="c51_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm of David, in the coming inn unto him of Nathan the prophet, when he hath gone in unto Bath-Sheba. Favour me, O God, according to Thy kindness, According to the abundance of Thy mercies, Blot out my transgressions.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thoroughly wash me from mine iniquity, And from my sin cleanse me,</p>

<p><a id="c51_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my transgressions I do know, And my sin [is] before me continually.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Against Thee, Thee only, I have sinned, And done the evil thing in Thine eyes, So that Thou art righteous in Thy words, Thou art pure in Thy judging.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lo, in iniquity I have been brought forth, And in sin doth my mother conceive me.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lo, truth Thou hast desired in the inward parts, And in the hidden part Wisdom Thou causest me to know.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou cleansest me with hyssop and I am clean, Washest me, and than snow I am whiter.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou causest me to hear joy and gladness, Thou makest joyful bones Thou hast bruised.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hide Thy face from my sin. And all mine iniquities blot out.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A clean heart prepare for me, O God, And a right spirit renew within me.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Cast me not forth from Thy presence, And Thy Holy Spirit take not from me.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Restore to me the joy of Thy salvation, And a willing spirit doth sustain me.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I teach transgressors Thy ways, And sinners unto Thee do return.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Deliver me from blood, O God, God of my salvation, My tongue singeth of Thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> O Lord, my lips thou dost open, And my mouth declareth Thy praise.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For Thou desirest not sacrifice, or I give [it], Burnt-offering Thou acceptest not.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sacrifices of God [are] a broken spirit, A heart broken and bruised, O God, Thou dost not despise.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Do good in Thy good pleasure with Zion, Thou dost build the walls of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c51_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then Thou desirest sacrifices of righteousness, Burnt-offering, and whole burntoffering, Then they offer bullocks on thine altar!</p>

</body>
</html>