<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By David. Unto Thee, O Jehovah, I call, My rock, be not silent to me! Lest Thou be silent to me, And I have been compared With those going down to the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear the voice of my supplications, In my crying unto Thee, In my lifting up my hands toward thy holy oracle.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Draw me not with the wicked, And with workers of iniquity, Speaking peace with their neighbours, And evil in their heart.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give to them according to their acting, And according to the evil of their doings. According to the work of their hands give to them. Return their deed to them.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For they attend not to the doing of Jehovah, And unto the work of His hands. He throweth them down, And doth not build them up.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessed [is] Jehovah, For He hath heard the voice of my supplications.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah [is] my strength, and my shield, In Him my heart trusted, and I have been helped. And my heart exulteth, And with my song I thank Him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah [is] strength to him, Yea, the strength of the salvation of His anointed [is] He.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Save Thy people, and bless Thine inheritance, And feed them, and carry them to the age!</p>

</body>
</html>