<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 74</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 74</h2>

<p><a id="c74_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> An Instruction of Asaph. Why, O God, hast Thou cast off for ever? Thine anger smoketh against the flock of Thy pasture.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Remember Thy company. Thou didst purchase of old, Thou didst redeem the rod of Thy inheritance, This mount Zion--Thou didst dwell in it.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lift up Thy steps to the perpetual desolations, Everything the enemy did wickedly in the sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Roared have thine adversaries, In the midst of Thy meeting-places, They have set their ensigns as ensigns.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He is known as one bringing in on high Against a thicket of wood--axes.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now, its carvings together With axe and hatchet they break down,</p>

<p><a id="c74_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have sent into fire Thy sanctuary, to the earth they polluted the tabernacle of Thy name,</p>

<p><a id="c74_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They said in their hearts, `Let us oppress them together,' They did burn all the meeting-places of God in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Our ensigns we have not seen, There is no more a prophet, Nor with us is one knowing how long.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Till when, O God, doth an adversary reproach? Doth an enemy despise thy name for ever?</p>

<p><a id="c74_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why dost Thou turn back Thy hand, Even Thy right hand? From the midst of Thy bosom remove [it].</p>

<p><a id="c74_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And God [is] my king of old, Working salvation in the midst of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou hast broken by Thy strength a sea -[monster], Thou hast shivered Heads of dragons by the waters,</p>

<p><a id="c74_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou hast broken the heads of leviathan, Thou makest him food, For the people of the dry places.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou hast cleaved a fountain and a stream, Thou hast dried up perennial flowings.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thine [is] the day, also Thine [is] the night, Thou hast prepared a light giver--the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou hast set up all the borders of earth, Summer and winter Thou hast formed them.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Remember this--an enemy reproached Jehovah, And a foolish people have despised Thy name.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Give not up to a company, The soul of Thy turtle-dove, The company of Thy poor ones forget not for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Look attentively to the covenant, For the dark places of earth, Have been full of habitations of violence.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let not the oppressed turn back ashamed, Let the poor and needy praise Thy name,</p>

<p><a id="c74_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Arise, O God, plead Thy plea, Remember Thy reproach from a fool all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Forget not the voice of Thine adversaries, The noise of Thy withstanders is going up continually!</p>

</body>
</html>