<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --By a servant of Jehovah, by David. The transgression of the wicked Is affirming within my heart, `Fear of God is not before his eyes,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he made [it] smooth to himself in his eyes, To find his iniquity to be hated.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The words of his mouth [are] iniquity and deceit, He ceased to act prudently--to do good.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Iniquity he deviseth on his bed, He stationeth himself on a way not good, Evil he doth not refuse.'</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O Jehovah, in the heavens [is] Thy kindness, Thy faithfulness [is] unto the clouds.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy righteousness [is] as mountains of God, Thy judgments [are] a great deep. Man and beast Thou savest, O Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> How precious [is] Thy kindness, O God, And the sons of men In the shadow of Thy wings do trust.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are filled from the fatness of Thy house, And the stream of Thy delights Thou dost cause them to drink.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For with Thee [is] a fountain of life, In Thy light we see light.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Draw out Thy kindness to those knowing Thee, And Thy righteousness to the upright of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let not a foot of pride meet me, And a hand of the wicked let not move me.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There have workers of iniquity fallen, They have been overthrown, And have not been able to arise!</p>

</body>
</html>