<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 115</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 115</h2>

<p><a id="c115_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Not to us, O Jehovah, not to us, But to Thy name give honour, For Thy kindness, for Thy truth.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Why do the nations say, `Where, pray, [is] their God.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And our God [is] in the heavens, All that He hath pleased He hath done.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their idols [are] silver and gold, work of man's hands,</p>

<p><a id="c115_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A mouth they have, and they speak not, Eyes they have, and they see not,</p>

<p><a id="c115_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ears they have, and they hear not, A nose they have, and they smell not,</p>

<p><a id="c115_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their hands, but they handle not, Their feet, and they walk not;</p>

<p><a id="c115_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Nor do they mutter through their throat, Like them are their makers, Every one who is trusting in them.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O Israel, trust in Jehovah, `Their help and their shield [is] He.'</p>

<p><a id="c115_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O house of Aaron, trust in Jehovah, `Their help and their shield [is] He.'</p>

<p><a id="c115_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ye fearing Jehovah, trust in Jehovah, `Their help and their shield [is] He.'</p>

<p><a id="c115_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jehovah hath remembered us, He blesseth, He blesseth the house of Israel, He blesseth the house of Aaron,</p>

<p><a id="c115_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He blesseth those fearing Jehovah, The small with the great.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah addeth to you, to you, and to your sons.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blessed [are] ye of Jehovah, maker of heaven and earth,</p>

<p><a id="c115_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The heavens--the heavens [are] Jehovah's, And the earth He hath given to sons of men,</p>

<p><a id="c115_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The dead praise not Jah, Nor any going down to silence.</p>

<p><a id="c115_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And we, we bless Jah, From henceforth, and unto the age. Praise ye Jah!</p>

</body>
</html>