<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm of David. In Thee, O Jehovah, I have trusted, Let me not be ashamed to the age, In Thy righteousness deliver me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Incline unto me Thine ear hastily, deliver me, Be to me for a strong rock, For a house of bulwarks to save me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my rock and my bulwark [art] Thou, For Thy name's sake lead me and tend me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Bring me out from the net that they hid for me, For Thou [art] my strength.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Into Thy hand I commit my spirit, Thou hast redeemed me, Jehovah God of truth.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have hated the observers of lying vanities, And I toward Jehovah have been confident.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I rejoice, and am glad in Thy kindness, In that Thou hast seen mine affliction, Thou hast known in adversities my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Thou hast not shut me up, Into the hand of an enemy, Thou hast caused my feet to stand in a broad place.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Favour me, O Jehovah, for distress [is] to me, Mine eye, my soul, and my body Have become old by provocation.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For my life hath been consumed in sorrow And my years in sighing. Feeble because of mine iniquity hath been my strength, And my bones have become old.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Among all mine adversaries I have been a reproach, And to my neighbours exceedingly, And a fear to mine acquaintances, Those seeing me without--fled from me.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have been forgotten as dead out of mind, I have been as a perishing vessel.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have heard an evil account of many, Fear [is] round about. In their being united against me, To take my life they have devised,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I on Thee--I have trusted, O Jehovah, I have said, `Thou [art] my God.'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In Thy hand [are] my times, Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, And from my pursuers.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Cause Thy face to shine on Thy servant, Save me in Thy kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> O Jehovah, let me not be ashamed, For I have called Thee, let the wicked be ashamed, Let them become silent to Sheol.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let lips of falsehood become dumb, That are speaking against the righteous, Ancient sayings, in pride and contempt.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How abundant is Thy goodness, That Thou hast laid up for those fearing Thee,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou hast wrought for those trusting in Thee, Before sons of men. Thou hidest them in the secret place of Thy presence, From artifices of man, Thou concealest them in a tabernacle, From the strife of tongues.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Blessed [is] Jehovah, For He hath made marvellous His kindness To me in a city of bulwarks.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I--I have said in my haste, `I have been cut off from before Thine eyes,' But Thou hast heard the voice of my supplications, In my crying unto Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Love Jehovah, all ye His saints, Jehovah is keeping the faithful, And recompensing abundantly a proud doer.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Be strong, and He strengtheneth your heart, All ye who are waiting for Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>