<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 59</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 59</h2>

<p><a id="c59_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`Destroy not,' by David. --A secret treasure, in Saul's sending, and they watch the house to put him to death. Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God, From my withstanders set me on high.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Deliver me from workers of iniquity, And from men of blood save me.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, lo, they laid wait for my soul, Assembled against me are strong ones, Not my transgression nor my sin, O Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Without punishment they run and prepare themselves, Stir up to meet me, and see.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Thou, Jehovah, God of Hosts, God of Israel, Awake to inspect all the nations. Favour not any treacherous dealers of iniquity. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They turn back at evening, They make a noise like a dog, And go round about the city.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, they belch out with their mouths, Swords [are] in their lips, for `Who heareth?'</p>

<p><a id="c59_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Thou, O Jehovah dost laugh at them, Thou dost mock at all the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O my Strength, unto Thee I take heed, For God [is] my tower--the God of my kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> God doth go before me, He causeth me to look on mine enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Slay them not, lest my people forget, Shake them by Thy strength, And bring them down, O Lord our shield.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The sin of their mouth [is] a word of their lips, And they are captured in their pride, And from the curse and lying they recount.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Consume in fury, consume and they are not, And they know that God is ruling in Jacob, To the ends of the earth. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they turn back at evening, They make a noise like a dog, And they go round about the city.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They--they wander for food, If they are not satisfied--then they murmur.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I--I sing [of] Thy strength, And I sing at morn [of] Thy kindness, For thou hast been a tower to me, And a refuge for me in a day of adversity.</p>

<p><a id="c59_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> O my Strength, unto Thee I sing praise, For God [is] my tower, the God of my kindness!</p>

</body>
</html>