<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 109</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 109</h2>

<p><a id="c109_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm of David. O God of my praise, be not silent,</p>

<p><a id="c109_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the mouth of wickedness, and the mouth of deceit, Against me they have opened, They have spoken with me--A tongue of falsehood, and words of hatred!</p>

<p><a id="c109_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have compassed me about, And they fight me without cause.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For my love they oppose me, and I--prayer!</p>

<p><a id="c109_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they set against me evil for good, And hatred for my love.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Appoint Thou over him the wicked, And an adversary standeth at his right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In his being judged, he goeth forth wicked, And his prayer is for sin.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> His days are few, his oversight another taketh,</p>

<p><a id="c109_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> His sons are fatherless, and his wife a widow.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And wander continually do his sons, Yea, they have begged, And have sought out of their dry places.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> An exactor layeth a snare for all that he hath, And strangers spoil his labour.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He hath none to extend kindness, Nor is there one showing favour to his orphans.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His posterity is for cutting off, In another generation is their name blotted out.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The iniquity of his fathers Is remembered unto Jehovah, And the sin of his mother is not blotted out.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They are before Jehovah continually, And He cutteth off from earth their memorial.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because that he hath not remembered to do kindness, And pursueth the poor man and needy, And the smitten of heart--to slay,</p>

<p><a id="c109_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he loveth reviling, and it meeteth him, And he hath not delighted in blessing, And it is far from him.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he putteth on reviling as his robe, And it cometh in as water into his midst, And as oil into his bones.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is to him as apparel--he covereth himself, And for a continual girdle he girdeth it on.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This [is] the wage of mine accusers from Jehovah, And of those speaking evil against my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Thou, O Jehovah Lord, Deal with me for Thy name's sake, Because Thy kindness [is] good, deliver me.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I [am] poor and needy, And my heart hath been pierced in my midst.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> As a shadow when it is stretched out I have gone, I have been driven away as a locust.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My knees have been feeble from fasting, And my flesh hath failed of fatness.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I--I have been a reproach to them, They see me, they shake their head.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Help me, O Jehovah my God, Save me, according to Thy kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they know that this [is] Thy hand, Thou, O Jehovah, Thou hast done it.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They revile, and Thou dost bless, They have risen, and are ashamed, And Thy servant doth rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Mine accusers put on blushing, and are covered, As an upper robe [is] their shame.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I thank Jehovah greatly with my mouth, And in the midst of many I praise Him,</p>

<p><a id="c109_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For He standeth at the right hand of the needy, To save from those judging his soul.</p>

</body>
</html>