<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 135</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 135</h2>

<p><a id="c135_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye Jah! Praise ye the name of Jehovah, Praise, ye servants of Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c135_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who are standing in the house of Jehovah, In the courts of the house of our God.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise ye Jah! for Jehovah [is] good, Sing praise to His name, for [it is] pleasant.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Jacob hath Jah chosen for Himself, Israel for His peculiar treasure.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I have known that great [is] Jehovah, Yea, our Lord [is] above all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All that Jehovah pleased He hath done, In the heavens and in earth, In the seas and all deep places,</p>

<p><a id="c135_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Causing vapours to ascend from the end of the earth, Lightnings for the rain He hath made, Bringing forth wind from His treasures.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who smote the first-born of Egypt, From man unto beast.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He sent tokens and wonders into thy midst, O Egypt, On Pharaoh and on all his servants.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who smote many nations, and slew strong kings,</p>

<p><a id="c135_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Even Sihon king of the Amorite, And Og king of Bashan, And all kingdoms of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And He gave their land an inheritance, An inheritance to Israel His people,</p>

<p><a id="c135_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O Jehovah, Thy name [is] to the age, O Jehovah, Thy memorial to all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Jehovah doth judge His people, And for His servants comforteth Himself.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The idols of the nations [are] silver and gold, Work of the hands of man.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A mouth they have, and they speak not, Eyes they have, and they see not,</p>

<p><a id="c135_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Ears they have, and they give not ear, Nose--there is no breath in their mouth!</p>

<p><a id="c135_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Like them are their makers, Every one who is trusting in them.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O house of Israel, bless ye Jehovah, O house of Aaron, bless ye Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c135_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> O house of Levi, bless ye Jehovah, Those fearing Jehovah, bless ye Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Blessed [is] Jehovah from Zion, Inhabiting Jerusalem--praise ye Jah!</p>

</body>
</html>