<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 102</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 102</h2>

<p><a id="c102_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Prayer of the afflicted when he is feeble, and before Jehovah poureth out his plaint. O Jehovah, hear my prayer, yea, my cry to Thee cometh.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hide not Thou Thy face from me, In a day of mine adversity, Incline unto me Thine ear, In the day I call, haste, answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For consumed in smoke have been my days, And my bones as a fire-brand have burned.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Smitten as the herb, and withered, is my heart, For I have forgotten to eat my bread.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> From the voice of my sighing Hath my bone cleaved to my flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have been like to a pelican of the wilderness, I have been as an owl of the dry places.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have watched, and I am As a bird alone on the roof.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All the day mine enemies reproached me, Those mad at me have sworn against me.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because ashes as bread I have eaten, And my drink with weeping have mingled,</p>

<p><a id="c102_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> From Thine indignation and Thy wrath, For Thou hast lifted me up, And dost cast me down.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days as a shadow [are] stretched out, And I--as the herb I am withered.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Thou, O Jehovah, to the age abidest, And Thy memorial to all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou--Thou risest--Thou pitiest Zion, For the time to favour her, For the appointed time hath come.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Thy servants have been pleased with her stones, And her dust they favour.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And nations fear the name of Jehovah, And all kings of the earth Thine honour,</p>

<p><a id="c102_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For Jehovah hath builded Zion, He hath been seen in His honour,</p>

<p><a id="c102_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He turned unto the prayer of the destitute, And He hath not despised their prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> This is written for a later generation, And the people created do praise Jah.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For He hath looked From the high place of His sanctuary. Jehovah from heaven unto earth looked attentively,</p>

<p><a id="c102_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> To hear the groan of the prisoner, To loose sons of death,</p>

<p><a id="c102_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To declare in Zion the name of Jehovah, And His praise in Jerusalem,</p>

<p><a id="c102_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In the peoples being gathered together, And the kingdoms--to serve Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He hath humbled in the way my power, He hath shortened my days.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I say, `My God, take me not up in the midst of my days,' Through all generations [are] Thine years.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Beforetime the earth Thou didst found, And the work of Thy hands [are] the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They--They perish, and Thou remainest, And all of them as a garment become old, As clothing Thou changest them, And they are changed.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Thou [art] the same, and Thine years are not finished.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The sons of Thy servants do continue, And their seed before Thee is established!</p>

</body>
</html>