<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 139</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 139</h2>

<p><a id="c139_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm by David. Jehovah, Thou hast searched me, and knowest.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou--Thou hast known my sitting down, And my rising up, Thou hast attended to my thoughts from afar.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My path and my couch Thou hast fanned, And [with] all my ways hast been acquainted.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For there is not a word in my tongue, Lo, O Jehovah, Thou hast known it all!</p>

<p><a id="c139_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behind and before Thou hast besieged me, And Thou dost place on me Thy hand.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Knowledge too wonderful for me, It hath been set on high, I am not able for it.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whither do I go from Thy Spirit? And whither from Thy face do I flee?</p>

<p><a id="c139_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If I ascend the heavens--there Thou [art], And spread out a couch in Sheol, lo, Thee!</p>

<p><a id="c139_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I take the wings of morning, I dwell in the uttermost part of the sea,</p>

<p><a id="c139_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Also there Thy hand doth lead me, And Thy right hand doth hold me.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I say, `Surely darkness bruiseth me, Then night [is] light to me.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Also darkness hideth not from Thee, And night as day shineth, as [is] darkness so [is] light.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For Thou--Thou hast possessed my reins, Thou dost cover me in my mother's belly.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I confess Thee, because that [with] wonders I have been distinguished. Wonderful [are] Thy works, And my soul is knowing [it] well.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My substance was not hid from Thee, When I was made in secret, Curiously wrought in the lower part of earth.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Mine unformed substance Thine eyes saw, And on Thy book all of them are written, The days they were formed--And not one among them.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And to me how precious have been Thy thoughts, O God, how great hath been their sum!</p>

<p><a id="c139_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I recount them! than the sand they are more, I have waked, and I am still with Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Dost Thou slay, O God, the wicked? Then, men of blood, turn aside from me!</p>

<p><a id="c139_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Who exchange Thee for wickedness, Lifted up to vanity [are] Thine enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Do not I hate, Jehovah, those hating Thee? And with Thy withstanders grieve myself?</p>

<p><a id="c139_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> [With] perfect hatred I have hated them, Enemies they have become to me.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Search me, O God, and know my heart, Try me, and know my thoughts,</p>

<p><a id="c139_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And see if a grievous way be in me, And lead me in a way age-during!</p>

</body>
</html>