<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 60</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 60</h2>

<p><a id="c60_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`Concerning the Lily of Testimony,' a secret treasure of David, to teach, in his striving with Aram-Naharaim, and with Aram-Zobah, and Joab turneth back and smiteth Edom in the valley of Salt--twelve thousand. O God, Thou hadst cast us off, Thou hadst broken us--hadst been angry! --Thou dost turn back to us.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast caused the land to tremble, Thou hast broken it, Heal its breaches, for it hath moved.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast shewn Thy people a hard thing, Thou hast caused us to drink wine of trembling.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou hast given to those fearing thee an ensign. To be lifted up as an ensign Because of truth. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That Thy beloved ones may be drawn out, Save [with] Thy right hand, and answer us.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God hath spoken in His holiness: I exult--I apportion Shechem, And the valley of Succoth I measure,</p>

<p><a id="c60_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Mine [is] Gilead, and mine [is] Manasseh, And Ephraim [is] the strength of my head, Judah [is] my lawgiver,</p>

<p><a id="c60_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Moab [is] my pot for washing, over Edom I cast my shoe, Shout, concerning me, O Philistia.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who doth bring me [to] a city of bulwarks? Who hath led me unto Edom?</p>

<p><a id="c60_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Is it not Thou, O God? hast Thou cast us off? And dost Thou not go forth, O God, with our hosts!</p>

<p><a id="c60_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Give to us help from adversity, And vain [is] the deliverance of man.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In God we do mightily, And He treadeth down our adversaries!</p>

</body>
</html>