<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 97</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 97</h2>

<p><a id="c97_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah hath reigned, The earth is joyful, many isles rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Cloud and darkness [are] round about Him, Righteousness and judgment the basis of His throne.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Fire before Him goeth, And burneth round about His adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lightened have His lightnings the world, The earth hath seen, and is pained.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hills, like wax, melted before Jehovah, Before the Lord of all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The heavens declared His righteousness, And all the peoples have seen His honour.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ashamed are all servants of a graven image, Those boasting themselves in idols, Bow yourselves to him, all ye gods.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Zion hath heard and rejoiceth, And daughters of Judah are joyful, Because of Thy judgments, O Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For Thou, Jehovah, [art] Most High over all the earth, Greatly Thou hast been exalted over all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye who love Jehovah, hate evil, He is keeping the souls of His saints, From the hand of the wicked he delivereth them.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Light [is] sown for the righteous, And for the upright of heart--joy.</p>

<p><a id="c97_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Rejoice, ye righteous, in Jehovah, And give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness!</p>

</body>
</html>