<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Secret Treasure of David. Preserve me, O God, for I did trust in Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast said to Jehovah, `My Lord Thou [art];' My good [is] not for thine own sake;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the holy ones who [are] in the land, And the honourable, all my delight [is] in them.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Multiplied are their griefs, [Who] have hastened backward; I pour not out their libations of blood, Nor do I take up their names on my lips.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jehovah [is] the portion of my share, and of my cup, Thou--Thou dost uphold my lot.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lines have fallen to me in pleasant places, Yea, a beauteous inheritance [is] for me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I bless Jehovah who hath counselled me; Also [in] the nights my reins instruct me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I did place Jehovah before me continually, Because--at my right hand I am not moved.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore hath my heart been glad, And my honour doth rejoice, Also my flesh dwelleth confidently:</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For Thou dost not leave my soul to Sheol, Nor givest thy saintly one to see corruption.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou causest me to know the path of life; Fulness of joys [is] with Thy presence, Pleasant things by Thy right hand for ever!</p>

</body>
</html>