<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 66</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 66</h2>

<p><a id="c66_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Song, a Psalm. Shout ye to God, all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Praise ye the honour of His name, Make ye honourable His praise.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Say to God, `How fearful [are] Thy works, By the abundance of Thy strength, Thine enemies feign obedience to Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> All the earth do bow to Thee, They sing praise to Thee, they praise Thy name.' Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Come ye, and see the works of God, Fearful acts toward the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He hath turned a sea to dry land, Through a river they pass over on foot, There do we rejoice in Him.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ruling by His might to the age, His eyes among the nations do watch, The refractory exalt not themselves. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bless, ye peoples, our God, And sound the voice of His praise,</p>

<p><a id="c66_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who hath placed our soul in life, And suffered not our feet to be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For Thou hast tried us, O God, Thou hast refined us as the refining of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast brought us into a net, Thou hast placed pressure on our loins.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou hast caused man to ride at our head. We have entered into fire and into water, And Thou bringest us out to a watered place.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I enter Thy house with burnt-offerings, I complete to Thee my vows,</p>

<p><a id="c66_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For opened were my lips, And my mouth spake in my distress:</p>

<p><a id="c66_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `Burnt-offerings of fatlings I offer to Thee, With perfume of rams, I prepare a bullock with he-goats.' Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Come, hear, all ye who fear God, And I recount what he did for my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Unto Him [with] my mouth I have called, And exaltation [is] under my tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Iniquity, if I have seen in my heart, The Lord doth not hear.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But God hath heard, He hath attended to the voice of my prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Blessed [is] God, Who hath not turned aside my prayer, And His loving-kindness, from me!</p>

</body>
</html>