<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 96</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 96</h2>

<p><a id="c96_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Sing to Jehovah a new song, Sing to Jehovah all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing to Jehovah, bless His name, Proclaim from day to day His salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Declare among nations His honour, Among all the peoples His wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For great [is] Jehovah, and praised greatly, Fearful He [is] over all gods.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For all the gods of the peoples [are] nought, And Jehovah made the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Honour and majesty [are] before Him, Strength and beauty in His sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ascribe to Jehovah, O families of the peoples, Ascribe to Jehovah honour and strength.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ascribe to Jehovah the honour of His name, Lift up a present and come in to His courts.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Bow yourselves to Jehovah, In the honour of holiness, Be afraid of His presence, all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say among nations, `Jehovah hath reigned, Also--established is the world, unmoved, He judgeth the peoples in uprightness.'</p>

<p><a id="c96_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heavens joy, and the earth is joyful, The sea and its fulness roar.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The field exulteth, and all that [is] in it, Then sing do all trees of the forest,</p>

<p><a id="c96_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Before Jehovah, for He hath come, For He hath come to judge the earth. He judgeth the world in righteousness, And the peoples in His faithfulness!</p>

</body>
</html>