<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer, `On the Death of Labben.' --A Psalm of David. I confess, O Jehovah, with all my heart, I recount all Thy wonders,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I rejoice and exult in Thee, I praise Thy Name, O Most High.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In mine enemies turning backward, they stumble and perish from Thy face.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Thou hast done my judgment and my right. Thou hast sat on a throne, A judge of righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast rebuked nations, Thou hast destroyed the wicked, Their name Thou hast blotted out to the age and for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O thou Enemy, Finished have been destructions for ever, As to cities thou hast plucked up, Perished hath their memorial with them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jehovah to the age abideth, He is preparing for judgment His throne.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And He judgeth the world in righteousness, He judgeth the peoples in uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah is a tower for the bruised, A tower for times of adversity.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They trust in Thee who do know Thy name, For Thou hast not forsaken Those seeking Thee, O Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sing ye praise to Jehovah, inhabiting Zion, Declare ye among the peoples His acts,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For He who is seeking for blood Them hath remembered, He hath not forgotten the cry of the afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Favour me, O Jehovah, See mine affliction by those hating me, Thou who liftest me up from the gates of death,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So that I recount all Thy praise, In the gates of the daughter of Zion. I rejoice on Thy salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Sunk have nations in a pit they made, In a net that they hid hath their foot been captured.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jehovah hath been known, Judgment He hath done, By a work of his hands Hath the wicked been snared. Meditation. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The wicked do turn back to Sheol, All nations forgetting God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For not for ever is the needy forgotten, The hope of the humble lost to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Rise, O Jehovah, let not man be strong, Let nations be judged before Thy face.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Appoint, O Jehovah, a director to them, Let nations know they [are] men! Selah.</p>

</body>
</html>