<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm. --A song of the dedication of the house of David. I exalt Thee, O Jehovah, For Thou hast drawn me up, and hast not let mine enemies rejoice over me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah my God, I have cried to Thee, And Thou dost heal me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah, Thou hast brought up from Sheol my soul, Thou hast kept me alive, From going down [to] the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sing praise to Jehovah, ye His saints, And give thanks at the remembrance of His holiness,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For--a moment [is] in His anger, Life [is] in His good-will, At even remaineth weeping, and at morn singing.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I--I have said in mine ease, `I am not moved--to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O Jehovah, in Thy good pleasure, Thou hast caused strength to remain for my mountain,' Thou hast hidden Thy face--I have been troubled.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Unto Thee, O Jehovah, I call, And unto Jehovah I make supplication.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `What gain [is] in my blood? In my going down unto corruption? Doth dust thank Thee? doth it declare Thy truth?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear, O Jehovah, and favour me, O Jehovah, be a helper to me.'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast turned my mourning to dancing for me, Thou hast loosed my sackcloth, And girdest me [with] joy.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So that honour doth praise Thee, and is not silent, O Jehovah, my God, to the age I thank Thee!</p>

</body>
</html>