<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 91</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 91</h2>

<p><a id="c91_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He who is dwelling In the secret place of the Most High, In the shade of the Mighty lodgeth habitually,</p>

<p><a id="c91_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He is saying of Jehovah, `My refuge, and my bulwark, my God, I trust in Him,'</p>

<p><a id="c91_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For He delivereth thee from the snare of a fowler, From a calamitous pestilence.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> With His pinion He covereth thee over, And under His wings thou dost trust, A shield and buckler [is] His truth.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou art not afraid of fear by night, Of arrow that flieth by day,</p>

<p><a id="c91_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Of pestilence in thick darkness that walketh, Of destruction that destroyeth at noon,</p>

<p><a id="c91_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There fall at thy side a thousand, And a myriad at thy right hand, Unto thee it cometh not nigh.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But with thine eyes thou lookest, And the reward of the wicked thou seest,</p>

<p><a id="c91_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (For Thou, O Jehovah, [art] my refuge,) The Most High thou madest thy habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Evil happeneth not unto thee, And a plague cometh not near thy tent,</p>

<p><a id="c91_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For His messengers He chargeth for thee, To keep thee in all thy ways,</p>

<p><a id="c91_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> On the hands they bear thee up, Lest thou smite against a stone thy foot.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> On lion and asp thou treadest, Thou trampest young lion and dragon.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Because in Me he hath delighted, I also deliver him--I set him on high, Because he hath known My name.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He doth call Me, and I answer him, I [am] with him in distress, I deliver him, and honour him.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With length of days I satisfy him, And I cause him to look on My salvation!</p>

</body>
</html>