<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 77</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 77</h2>

<p><a id="c77_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer, for Jeduthun. --A Psalm of Asaph. My voice [is] to God, and I cry, my voice [is] to God, And He hath given ear unto me.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In a day of my distress the Lord I sought, My hand by night hath been spread out, And it doth not cease, My soul hath refused to be comforted.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I remember God, and make a noise, I meditate, and feeble is my spirit. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou hast taken hold of the watches of mine eyes, I have been moved, and I speak not.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have reckoned the days of old, The years of the ages.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I remember my music in the night, With my heart I meditate, and my spirit doth search diligently:</p>

<p><a id="c77_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To the ages doth the Lord cast off? Doth He add to be pleased no more?</p>

<p><a id="c77_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hath His kindness ceased for ever? The saying failed to all generations?</p>

<p><a id="c77_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hath God forgotten [His] favours? Hath He shut up in anger His mercies? Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I say: `My weakness is, The changes of the right hand of the Most High.'</p>

<p><a id="c77_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I mention the doings of Jah, For I remember of old Thy wonders,</p>

<p><a id="c77_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I have meditated on all Thy working, And I talk concerning Thy doings.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O God, in holiness [is] Thy way, Who [is] a great god like God?</p>

<p><a id="c77_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou [art] the God doing wonders. Thou hast made known among the peoples Thy strength,</p>

<p><a id="c77_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou hast redeemed with strength Thy people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The waters have seen Thee, O God, The waters have seen Thee, They are afraid-- also depths are troubled.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Poured out waters have thick clouds, The skies have given forth a noise, Also--Thine arrows go up and down.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The voice of Thy thunder [is] in the spheres, Lightnings have lightened the world, The earth hath trembled, yea, it shaketh.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the sea [is] Thy way, And Thy paths [are] in many waters, And Thy tracks have not been known.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou hast led as a flock Thy people, By the hand of Moses and Aaron!</p>

</body>
</html>