<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By David. --An Instruction. O the happiness of him whose transgression [is] forgiven, Whose sin is covered.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O the happiness of a man, To whom Jehovah imputeth not iniquity, And in whose spirit there is no deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When I have kept silence, become old have my bones, Through my roaring all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When by day and by night Thy hand is heavy upon me, My moisture hath been changed Into the droughts of summer. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My sin I cause Thee to know, And mine iniquity I have not covered. I have said, `I confess concerning My transgressions to Jehovah,' And Thou--Thou hast taken away, The iniquity of my sin. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this doth every saintly one pray to Thee, As the time to find. Surely at an overflowing of many waters, Unto him they come not.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou [art] a hiding-place for me, From distress Thou dost keep me, [With] songs of deliverance dost compass me. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I cause thee to act wisely, And direct thee in the way that thou goest, I cause mine eye to take counsel concerning thee.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be ye not as a horse--as a mule, Without understanding, With bridle and bit, its ornaments, to curb, Not to come near unto thee.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Many [are] the pains of the wicked; As to him who is trusting in Jehovah, Kindness doth compass him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be glad in Jehovah, and rejoice, ye righteous, And sing, all ye upright of heart!</p>

</body>
</html>