<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 65</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 65</h2>

<p><a id="c65_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm of David. A Song. To Thee, silence--praise, O God, [is] in Zion, And to Thee is a vow completed.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hearer of prayer, to Thee all flesh cometh.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Matters of iniquities were mightier than I, Our transgressions--Thou dost cover them.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> O the happiness of [him whom] Thou choosest, And drawest near, he inhabiteth Thy courts, We are satisfied with the goodness of Thy house, Thy holy temple.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By fearful things in righteousness Thou answerest us, O God of our salvation, The confidence of all far off ends of earth and sea.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Establishing mountains by His power, He hath been girded with might,</p>

<p><a id="c65_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Restraining the noise of seas, the noise of their billows, And the multitude of the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the inhabitants of the uttermost parts From Thy signs are afraid, The outgoings of morning and evening Thou causest to sing.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast inspected the earth, and waterest it, Thou makest it very rich, the rivulet of God [is] full of water, Thou preparest their corn, When thus Thou dost prepare it,</p>

<p><a id="c65_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Its ridges have been filled, Deepened hath been its furrow, With showers Thou dost soften it, Its springing up Thou blessest.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast crowned the year of Thy goodness, And Thy paths drop fatness.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Drop do the pastures of a wilderness, And joy of the heights Thou girdest on.</p>

<p><a id="c65_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Clothed have lambs the flock, And valleys are covered with corn, They shout--yea, they sing!</p>

</body>
</html>