<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 84</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 84</h2>

<p><a id="c84_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`On the Gittith By sons of Korah.' --A Psalm. How beloved Thy tabernacles, Jehovah of Hosts!</p>

<p><a id="c84_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul desired, yea, it hath also been consumed, For the courts of Jehovah, My heart and my flesh cry aloud unto the living God,</p>

<p><a id="c84_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> (Even a sparrow hath found a house, And a swallow a nest for herself, Where she hath placed her brood,) Thine altars, O Jehovah of Hosts, My king and my God.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> O the happiness of those inhabiting Thy house, Yet do they praise Thee. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O the happiness of a man whose strength is in Thee, Highways [are] in their heart.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Those passing through a valley of weeping, A fountain do make it, Blessings also cover the director.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They go from strength unto strength, He appeareth unto God in Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O Jehovah, God of Hosts, hear my prayer, Give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Our shield, see, O God, And behold the face of Thine anointed,</p>

<p><a id="c84_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For good [is] a day in Thy courts, O Teacher! I have chosen rather to be at the threshold, In the house of my God, Than to dwell in tents of wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For a sun and a shield [is] Jehovah God, Grace and honour doth Jehovah give. He withholdeth not good To those walking in uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jehovah of Hosts! O the happiness of a man trusting in Thee.</p>

</body>
</html>