<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 118</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 118</h2>

<p><a id="c118_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ye thanks to Jehovah, For good, for to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I pray you, let Israel say, That, to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I pray you, let the house of Aaron say, That, to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I pray you, let those fearing Jehovah say, That, to the age [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> From the straitness I called Jah, Jah answered me in a broad place.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah [is] for me, I do not fear what man doth to me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah [is] for me among my helpers, And I--I look on those hating me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Better to take refuge in Jehovah than to trust in man,</p>

<p><a id="c118_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Better to take refuge in Jehovah, Than to trust in princes.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All nations have compassed me about, In the name of Jehovah I surely cut them off.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They have compassed me about, Yea, they have compassed me about, In the name of Jehovah I surely cut them off.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They compassed me about as bees, They have been extinguished as a fire of thorns, In the name of Jehovah I surely cut them off.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou hast sorely thrust me to fall, And Jehovah hath helped me.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My strength and song [is] Jah, And He is to me for salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A voice of singing and salvation, [Is] in the tents of the righteous, The right hand of Jehovah is doing valiantly.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The right hand of Jehovah is exalted, The right hand of Jehovah is doing valiantly.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I do not die, but live, And recount the works of Jah,</p>

<p><a id="c118_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jah hath sorely chastened me, And to death hath not given me up.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Open ye to me gates of righteousness, I enter into them--I thank Jah.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This [is] the gate to Jehovah, The righteous enter into it.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I thank Thee, for Thou hast answered me, And art to me for salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A stone the builders refused Hath become head of a corner.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> From Jehovah hath this been, It [is] wonderful in our eyes,</p>

<p><a id="c118_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> This [is] the day Jehovah hath made, We rejoice and are glad in it.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I beseech Thee, O Jehovah, save, I pray Thee, I beseech Thee, O Jehovah, prosper, I pray Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Blessed [is] he who is coming In the name of Jehovah, We blessed you from the house of Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c118_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> God [is] Jehovah, and He giveth to us light, Direct ye the festal-sacrifice with cords, Unto the horns of the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My God Thou [art], and I confess Thee, My God, I exalt Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Give ye thanks to Jehovah, For good, for to the age, [is] His kindness!</p>

</body>
</html>