<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 79</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 79</h2>

<p><a id="c79_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of Asaph. O God, nations have come into Thy inheritance, They have defiled Thy holy temple, They made Jerusalem become heaps,</p>

<p><a id="c79_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They gave the dead bodies of Thy servants Food for the fowls of the heavens, The flesh of Thy saints For the wild beast of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have shed their blood As water round about Jerusalem, And there is none burying.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We have been a reproach to our neighbours, A scorn and a derision to our surrounders.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Till when, O Jehovah? art Thou angry for ever? Thy jealousy doth burn as fire.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Pour Thy fury on the nations who have not known Thee, And on kingdoms that have not called in Thy name.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For [one] hath devoured Jacob, And his habitation they have made desolate.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remember not for us the iniquities of forefathers, Haste, let Thy mercies go before us, For we have been very weak.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Help us, O God of our salvation, Because of the honour of Thy name, And deliver us, and cover over our sins, For Thy name's sake.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Why do the nations say, `Where [is] their God?' Let be known among the nations before our eyes, The vengeance of the blood of Thy servants that is shed.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the groaning of the prisoner come in before Thee, According to the greatness of Thine arm, Leave Thou the sons of death.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And turn Thou back to our neighbours, Sevenfold unto their bosom, their reproach, Wherewith they reproached Thee, O Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c79_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And we, Thy people, and the flock of Thy pasture, We give thanks to Thee to the age, To all generations we recount Thy praise!</p>

</body>
</html>