<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 140</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 140</h2>

<p><a id="c140_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm of David. Deliver me, O Jehovah, from an evil man, From one of violence Thou keepest me.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who have devised evils in the heart, All the day they assemble [for] wars.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They sharpened their tongue as a serpent, Poison of an adder [is] under their lips. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Preserve me, Jehovah, from the hands of the wicked, From one of violence Thou keepest me, Who have devised to overthrow my steps.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The proud hid a snare for me--and cords, They spread a net by the side of the path, Snares they have set for me. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have said to Jehovah, `My God [art] Thou, Hear, Jehovah, the voice of my supplications.'</p>

<p><a id="c140_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O Jehovah, my Lord, strength of my salvation, Thou hast covered my head in the day of armour.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Grant not, O Jehovah, the desires of the wicked, His wicked device bring not forth, They are high. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The chief of my surrounders, The perverseness of their lips covereth them.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They cause to fall on themselves burning coals, Into fire He doth cast them, Into deep pits--they arise not.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A talkative man is not established in the earth, One of violence--evil hunteth to overflowing.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have known that Jehovah doth execute The judgment of the afflicted, The judgment of the needy.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Only--the righteous give thanks to Thy name, The upright do dwell with Thy presence!</p>

</body>
</html>