<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 90</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 90</h2>

<p><a id="c90_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, a habitation Thou--Thou hast been, To us- -in generation and generation,</p>

<p><a id="c90_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before mountains were brought forth, And Thou dost form the earth and the world, Even from age unto age Thou [art] God.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou turnest man unto a bruised thing, And sayest, Turn back, ye sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For a thousand years in Thine eyes [are] as yesterday, For it passeth on, yea, a watch by night.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast inundated them, they are asleep, In the morning as grass he changeth.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the morning it flourisheth, and hath changed, At evening it is cut down, and hath withered.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For we were consumed in Thine anger, And in Thy fury we have been troubled.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast set our iniquities before Thee, Our hidden things at the light of Thy face,</p>

<p><a id="c90_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For all our days pined away in Thy wrath, We consumed our years as a meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Days of our years, in them [are] seventy years, And if, by reason of might, eighty years, Yet [is] their enlargement labour and vanity, For it hath been cut off hastily, and we fly away.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who knoweth the power of Thine anger? And according to Thy fear--Thy wrath?</p>

<p><a id="c90_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To number our days aright let [us] know, And we bring the heart to wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Turn back, O Jehovah, till when? And repent concerning Thy servants.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Satisfy us at morn [with] Thy kindness, And we sing and rejoice all our days.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Cause us to rejoice according to the days Wherein Thou hast afflicted us, The years we have seen evil.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let Thy work appear unto Thy servants, And Thine honour on their sons.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And let the pleasantness of Jehovah our God be upon us, And the work of our hands establish on us, Yea, the work of our hands establish it!</p>

</body>
</html>