<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm of David. I have diligently expected Jehovah, And He inclineth to me, and heareth my cry,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And He doth cause me to come up From a pit of desolation--from mire of mud, And He raiseth up on a rock my feet, He is establishing my steps.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And He putteth in my mouth a new song, `Praise to our God.' Many do see and fear, and trust in Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> O the happiness of the man Who hath made Jehovah his trust, And hath not turned unto the proud, And those turning aside to lies.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Much hast Thou done, Jehovah my God; Thy wonders and Thy thoughts toward us, There is none to arrange unto Thee, I declare and speak: They have been more than to be numbered.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sacrifice and present Thou hast not desired, Ears Thou hast prepared for me, Burnt and sin-offering Thou hast not asked.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said I, `Lo, I have come,' In the roll of the book it is written of me,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> To do Thy pleasure, my God, I have delighted, And Thy law [is] within my heart.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have proclaimed tidings of righteousness In the great assembly, lo, my lips I restrain not, O Jehovah, Thou hast known.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy righteousness I have not concealed In the midst of my heart, Thy faithfulness and Thy salvation I have told, I have not hidden Thy kindness and Thy truth, To the great assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou, O Jehovah, restrainest not Thy mercies from me, Thy kindness and Thy truth do continually keep me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For compassed me have evils innumerable, Overtaken me have mine iniquities, And I have not been able to see; They have been more than the hairs of my head, And my heart hath forsaken me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be pleased, O Jehovah, to deliver me, O Jehovah, for my help make haste.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They are ashamed and confounded together, Who are seeking my soul to destroy it, They are turned backward, And are ashamed, who are desiring my evil.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They are desolate because of their shame, Who are saying to me, `Aha, aha.'</p>

<p><a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All seeking Thee rejoice and are glad in Thee, Those loving Thy salvation say continually, `Jehovah is magnified.'</p>

<p><a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I [am] poor and needy, The Lord doth devise for me. My help and my deliverer [art] Thou, O my God, tarry Thou not.</p>

</body>
</html>