<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 147</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 147</h2>

<p><a id="c147_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye Jah! For [it is] good to praise our God, For pleasant--comely [is] praise.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Building Jerusalem [is] Jehovah, The driven away of Israel He gathereth.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who is giving healing to the broken of heart, And is binding up their griefs.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Appointing the number of the stars, To all them He giveth names.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Great [is] our Lord, and abundant in power, Of His understanding there is no narration.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah is causing the meek to stand, Making low the wicked unto the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Answer ye to Jehovah with thanksgiving, Sing ye to our God with a harp.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who is covering the heavens with clouds, Who is preparing for the earth rain, Who is causing grass to spring up [on] mountains,</p>

<p><a id="c147_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Giving to the beast its food, To the young of the ravens that call.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Not in the might of the horse doth He delight, Not in the legs of a man is He pleased.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah is pleased with those fearing Him, With those waiting for His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Glorify, O Jerusalem, Jehovah, Praise thy God, O Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For He did strengthen the bars of thy gates, He hath blessed thy sons in thy midst.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who is making thy border peace, [With] the fat of wheat He satisfieth Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Who is sending forth His saying [on] earth, Very speedily doth His word run.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who is giving snow like wool, Hoar-frost as ashes He scattereth.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Casting forth His ice like morsels, Before His cold who doth stand?</p>

<p><a id="c147_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He sendeth forth His word and melteth them, He causeth His wind to blow--the waters flow.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Declaring His words to Jacob, His statutes and His judgments to Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c147_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He hath not done so to any nation, As to judgments, they have not known them. Praise ye Jah!</p>

</body>
</html>