<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 92</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 92</h2>

<p><a id="c92_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm. --A Song for the sabbath-day. Good to give thanks to Jehovah, And to sing praises to Thy name, O Most High,</p>

<p><a id="c92_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To declare in the morning Thy kindness, And Thy faithfulness in the nights.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> On ten strings and on psaltery, On higgaion, with harp.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Thou hast caused me to rejoice, O Jehovah, in Thy work, Concerning the works of Thy hands I sing.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How great have been Thy works, O Jehovah, Very deep have been Thy thoughts.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A brutish man doth not know, And a fool understandeth not this; --</p>

<p><a id="c92_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the wicked flourish as a herb, And blossom do all workers of iniquity--For their being destroyed for ever and ever!</p>

<p><a id="c92_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Thou [art] high to the age, O Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, lo, Thine enemies, O Jehovah, For, lo, Thine enemies, do perish, Separate themselves do all workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Thou exaltest as a reem my horn, I have been anointed with fresh oil.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And mine eye looketh on mine enemies, Of those rising up against me, The evil doers, do mine ears hear.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The righteous as a palm-tree flourisheth, As a cedar in Lebanon he groweth.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Those planted in the house of Jehovah, In the courts of our God do flourish.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Still they bring forth in old age, Fat and flourishing are they,</p>

<p><a id="c92_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To declare that upright [is] Jehovah my rock, And there is no perverseness in Him!</p>

</body>
</html>