<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `The Erring One,' by David, that he sung to Jehovah concerning the words of Cush a Benjamite. O Jehovah, my God, in Thee I have trusted, Save me from all my pursuers, and deliver me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lest he tear as a lion my soul, Rending, and there is no deliverer.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O Jehovah, my God, if I have done this, If there is iniquity in my hands,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If I have done my well-wisher evil, And draw mine adversary without cause,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> An enemy pursueth my soul, and overtaketh, And treadeth down to the earth my life, And my honour placeth in the dust. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Rise, O Jehovah, in Thine anger, Be lifted up at the wrath of mine adversaries, And awake Thou for me: Judgment Thou hast commanded:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And a company of peoples compass Thee, And over it on high turn Thou back,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah doth judge the peoples; Judge me, O Jehovah, According to my righteousness, And according to mine integrity on me,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let, I pray Thee be ended the evil of the wicked, And establish Thou the righteous, And a trier of hearts and reins is the righteous God.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My shield [is] on God, Saviour of the upright in heart!</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God [is] a righteous judge, And He is not angry at all times.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If [one] turn not, His sword he sharpeneth, His bow he hath trodden--He prepareth it,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yea, for him He hath prepared Instruments of death, His arrows for burning pursuers He maketh.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Lo, he travaileth [with] iniquity, And he hath conceived perverseness, And hath brought forth falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A pit he hath prepared, and he diggeth it, And he falleth into a ditch he maketh.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Return doth his perverseness on his head, And on his crown his violence cometh down.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I thank Jehovah, According to His righteousness, And praise the name of Jehovah Most High!</p>

</body>
</html>