<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 86</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 86</h2>

<p><a id="c86_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Prayer of David. Incline, O Jehovah, Thine ear, Answer me, for I [am] poor and needy.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Keep my soul, for I [am] pious, Save Thy servant--who is trusting to Thee, O Thou, my God.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Favour me, O Lord, for to Thee I call all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rejoice the soul of Thy servant, For unto Thee, O Lord, my soul I lift up.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Thou, Lord, [art] good and forgiving. And abundant in kindness to all calling Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear, O Jehovah, my prayer, And attend to the voice of my supplications.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In a day of my distress I call Thee, For Thou dost answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There is none like Thee among the gods, O Lord, And like Thy works there are none.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All nations that Thou hast made Come and bow themselves before Thee, O Lord, And give honour to Thy name.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For great [art] Thou, and doing wonders, Thou [art] God Thyself alone.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Show me, O Jehovah, Thy way, I walk in Thy truth, My heart doth rejoice to fear Thy name.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I confess Thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, And I honour Thy name to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For Thy kindness [is] great toward me, And Thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest Sheol.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> O God, the proud have risen up against me, And a company of the terrible sought my soul, And have not placed Thee before them,</p>

<p><a id="c86_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Thou, O Lord, [art] God, merciful and gracious, Slow to anger, and abundant in kindness and truth.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Look unto me, and favour me, Give Thy strength to Thy servant, And give salvation to a son of Thine handmaid.</p>

<p><a id="c86_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Do with me a sign for good, And those hating me see and are ashamed, For Thou, O Jehovah, hast helped me, Yea, Thou hast comforted me!</p>

</body>
</html>