<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 73</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 73</h2>

<p><a id="c73_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of Asaph. Only--good to Israel [is] God, to the clean of heart. And I--as a little thing, My feet have been turned aside,</p>

<p><a id="c73_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As nothing, have my steps slipped, For I have been envious of the boastful,</p>

<p><a id="c73_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The peace of the wicked I see, That there are no bands at their death,</p>

<p><a id="c73_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And their might [is] firm.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In the misery of mortals they are not, And with common men they are not plagued.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore hath pride encircled them, Violence covereth them as a dress.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Their eye hath come out from fat. The imaginations of the heart transgressed;</p>

<p><a id="c73_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They do corruptly, And they speak in the wickedness of oppression, From on high they speak.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They have set in the heavens their mouth, And their tongue walketh in the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore do His people return hither, And waters of fulness are wrung out to them.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they have said, `How hath God known? And is there knowledge in the Most High?'</p>

<p><a id="c73_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Lo, these [are] the wicked and easy ones of the age, They have increased strength.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Only--a vain thing! I have purified my heart, And I wash in innocency my hands,</p>

<p><a id="c73_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I am plagued all the day, And my reproof [is] every morning.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I have said, `I recount thus,' Lo, a generation of Thy sons I have deceived.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I think to know this, Perverseness it [is] in mine eyes,</p>

<p><a id="c73_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Till I come in to the sanctuaries of God, I attend to their latter end.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Only, in slippery places Thou dost set them, Thou hast caused them to fall to desolations.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How have they become a desolation as in a moment, They have been ended-- consumed from terrors.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> As a dream from awakening, O Lord, In awaking, their image Thou despisest.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For my heart doth show itself violent, And my reins prick themselves,</p>

<p><a id="c73_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I am brutish, and do not know. A beast I have been with Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I [am] continually with Thee, Thou hast laid hold on my right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> With Thy counsel Thou dost lead me, And after honour dost receive me.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whom have I in the heavens? And with Thee none I have desired in earth.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Consumed hath been my flesh and my heart, The rock of my heart and my portion [is] God to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For, lo, those far from Thee do perish, Thou hast cut off every one, Who is going a whoring from Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c73_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And I--nearness of God to me [is] good, I have placed in the Lord Jehovah my refuge, To recount all Thy works!</p>

</body>
</html>