<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 72</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 72</h2>

<p><a id="c72_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By Solomon. O God, Thy judgments to the king give, And Thy righteousness to the king's son.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He judgeth Thy people with righteousness, And Thy poor with judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The mountains bear peace to the people, And the heights by righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He judgeth the poor of the people, Giveth deliverance to the sons of the needy, And bruiseth the oppressor.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They fear Thee with the sun, and before the moon, Generation--generations.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He cometh down as rain on mown grass, As showers--sprinkling the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Flourish in his days doth the righteous, And abundance of peace till the moon is not.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he ruleth from sea unto sea, And from the river unto the ends of earth.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Before him bow do the inhabitants of the dry places, And his enemies lick the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Kings of Tarshish and of the isles send back a present. Kings of Sheba and Seba a reward bring near.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And all kings do bow themselves to him, All nations do serve him,</p>

<p><a id="c72_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For he delivereth the needy who crieth, And the poor when he hath no helper,</p>

<p><a id="c72_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He hath pity on the poor and needy, And the souls of the needy he saveth,</p>

<p><a id="c72_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From fraud and from violence he redeemeth their soul, And precious is their blood in his eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he liveth, and giveth to him of the gold of Sheba, And prayeth for him continually, All the day he doth bless him.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There is a handful of corn in the earth, On the top of mountains, Shake like Lebanon doth its fruit, And they flourish out of the city as the herb of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His name is to the age, Before the sun is his name continued, And they bless themselves in him, All nations do pronounce him happy.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Blessed is Jehovah God, God of Israel, He alone is doing wonders,</p>

<p><a id="c72_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And blessed [is] the Name of His honour to the age, And the whole earth is filled [with] His honour. Amen, and amen!</p>

<p><a id="c72_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The prayers of David son of Jesse have been ended.</p>

</body>
</html>