<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By David. Jehovah [is] my light and my salvation, Whom do I fear? Jehovah [is] the strength of my life, Of whom am I afraid?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When evil doers come near to me to eat my flesh, My adversaries and mine enemies to me, They have stumbled and fallen.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Though a host doth encamp against me, My heart doth not fear, Though war riseth up against me, In this I [am] confident.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One [thing] I asked of Jehovah--it I seek. My dwelling in the house of Jehovah, All the days of my life, To look on the pleasantness of Jehovah, And to inquire in His temple.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For He hideth me in a tabernacle in the day of evil, He hideth me in a secret place of His tent, On a rock he raiseth me up.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now, lifted up is my head, Above my enemies--my surrounders, And I sacrifice in His tent sacrifices of shouting, I sing, yea, I sing praise to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear, O Jehovah, my voice--I call, And favour me, and answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> To Thee said my heart `They sought my face, Thy face, O Jehovah, I seek.'</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hide not Thy face from me, Turn not aside in anger Thy servant, My help Thou hast been. Leave me not, nor forsake me, O God of my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When my father and my mother Have forsaken me, then doth Jehovah gather me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shew me, O Jehovah, Thy way, And lead me in a path of uprightness, For the sake of my beholders.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Give me not to the will of my adversaries, For risen against me have false witnesses, And they breathe out violence to me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I had not believed to look on the goodness of Jehovah In the land of the living!</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Look unto Jehovah--be strong, And He doth strengthen thy heart, Yea, look unto Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>