<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 89</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 89</h2>

<p><a id="c89_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> An instruction, by Ethan the Ezrahite. Of the kind acts of Jehovah, to the age I sing, To all generations I make known Thy faithfulness with my mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I said, `To the age is kindness built, The heavens! Thou dost establish Thy faithfulness in them.'</p>

<p><a id="c89_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have made a covenant for My chosen, I have sworn to David My servant:</p>

<p><a id="c89_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `Even to the age do I establish thy seed, And have built to generation and generation thy throne. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the heavens confess Thy wonders, O Jehovah, Thy faithfulness also [is] in an assembly of holy ones.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For who in the sky, Compareth himself to Jehovah? Is like to Jehovah among sons of the mighty?</p>

<p><a id="c89_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> God is very terrible, In the secret counsel of His holy ones, And fearful over all surrounding Him.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O Jehovah, God of Hosts, Who [is] like Thee--a strong Jah? And Thy faithfulness [is] round about Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou [art] ruler over the pride of the sea, In the lifting up of its billows Thou dost restrain them.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou hast bruised Rahab, as one wounded. With the arm of Thy strength Thou hast scattered Thine enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thine [are] the heavens--the earth also [is] Thine, The habitable world and its fulness, Thou hast founded them.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> North and south Thou hast appointed them, Tabor and Hermon in Thy name do sing.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou hast an arm with might, Strong is Thy hand--high Thy right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Righteousness and judgment [Are] the fixed place of Thy throne, Kindness and truth go before Thy face.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> O the happiness of the people knowing the shout, O Jehovah, in the light of Thy face they walk habitually.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In Thy name they rejoice all the day, And in Thy righteousness they are exalted,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the beauty of their strength [art] Thou, And in Thy good will is our horn exalted,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For of Jehovah [is] our shield, And of the Holy One of Israel our king.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then Thou hast spoken in vision, To Thy saint, yea, Thou sayest, I have placed help upon a mighty one, Exalted a chosen one out of the people,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have found David My servant, With My holy oil I have anointed him.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> With whom My hand is established, My arm also doth strengthen him.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> An enemy exacteth not upon him, And a son of perverseness afflicteth him not.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I have beaten down before him his adversaries, And those hating him I plague,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And My faithfulness and kindness [are] with him, And in My name is his horn exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I have set on the sea his hand, And on the rivers his right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He proclaimeth me: `Thou [art] my Father, My God, and the rock of my salvation.'</p>

<p><a id="c89_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I also first-born do appoint him, Highest of the kings of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> To the age I keep for him My kindness, And My covenant [is] stedfast with him.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I have set his seed for ever, And his throne as the days of the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If his sons forsake My law, And in My judgments do not walk;</p>

<p><a id="c89_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If My statutes they pollute, And My commands do not keep,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I have looked after with a rod their transgression, And with strokes their iniquity,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And My kindness I break not from him, Nor do I deal falsely in My faithfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I profane not My covenant, And that which is going forth from My lips I change not.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Once I have sworn by My holiness, I lie not to David,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> His seed is to the age, And his throne [is] as the sun before Me,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> As the moon it is established--to the age, And the witness in the sky is stedfast. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Thou, Thou hast cast off, and dost reject, Thou hast shown Thyself wroth With Thine anointed,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Hast rejected the covenant of Thy servant, Thou hast polluted to the earth his crown,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Thou hast broken down all his hedges, Thou hast made his fenced places a ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Spoiled him have all passing by the way, He hath been a reproach to his neighbours,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Thou hast exalted the right hand of his adversaries, Thou hast caused all his enemies to rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Also--Thou turnest back the sharpness of his sword, And hast not established him in battle,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Hast caused [him] to cease from his brightness, And his throne to the earth hast cast down.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Thou hast shortened the days of his youth, Hast covered him over [with] shame. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Till when, O Jehovah, art Thou hidden? For ever doth Thy fury burn as fire?</p>

<p><a id="c89_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Remember, I pray Thee, what [is] life-time? Wherefore in vain hast Thou created All the sons of men?</p>

<p><a id="c89_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Who [is] the man that liveth, and doth not see death? He delivereth his soul from the hand of Sheol. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Where [are] Thy former kindnesses, O Lord. Thou hast sworn to David in Thy faithfulness,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Remember, O Lord, the reproach of Thy servants, I have borne in my bosom all the strivings of the peoples,</p>

<p><a id="c89_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Wherewith Thine enemies reproached, O Jehovah, Wherewith they have reproached The steps of Thine anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Blessed [is] Jehovah to the age. Amen, and amen!</p>

</body>
</html>