<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer, `Concerning the Inheritances.' --A Psalm of David. My sayings hear, O Jehovah, Consider my meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Be attentive to the voice of my cry, My king and my God, For unto Thee I pray habitually.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah, [at] morning Thou hearest my voice, [At] morning I set in array for Thee, And I look out.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For not a God desiring wickedness [art] Thou, Evil inhabiteth Thee not.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The boastful station not themselves before Thine eyes: Thou hast hated all working iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou destroyest those speaking lies, A man of blood and deceit Jehovah doth abominate.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I, in the abundance of Thy kindness, I enter Thy house, I bow myself toward Thy holy temple in Thy fear.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O Jehovah, lead me in Thy righteousness, Because of those observing me, Make straight before me Thy way,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For there is no stability in their mouth. Their heart [is] mischiefs, An open grave [is] their throat, Their tongue they make smooth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Declare them guilty, O God, Let them fall from their own counsels, In the abundance of their transgressions Drive them away, Because they have rebelled against Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And rejoice do all trusting in Thee, To the age they sing, and Thou coverest them over, And those loving Thy name exult in Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For Thou blessest the righteous, O Jehovah, As a buckler with favour dost compass him!</p>

</body>
</html>