<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 105</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 105</h2>

<p><a id="c105_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ye thanks to Jehovah--call ye in His name, Make known among the peoples His acts.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing ye to Him--sing praise to Him, Meditate ye on all His wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Boast yourselves in His Holy Name, The heart of those seeking Jehovah rejoiceth.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Seek ye Jehovah and His strength, Seek ye His face continually.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Remember His wonders that He did, His signs and the judgments of His mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O seed of Abraham, His servant, O sons of Jacob, His chosen ones.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He [is] Jehovah our God, In all the earth [are] His judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath remembered to the age His covenant, The word He commanded to a thousand generations,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That He hath made with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And doth establish it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel--a covenant age-during,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Saying, `To thee I give the land of Canaan, The portion of your inheritance,'</p>

<p><a id="c105_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In their being few in number, But a few, and sojourners in it.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they go up and down, from nation unto nation, From a kingdom unto another people.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He hath not suffered any to oppress them And He reproveth for their sakes kings.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `Strike not against Mine anointed, And to My prophets do not evil.'</p>

<p><a id="c105_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And He calleth a famine on the land, The whole staff of bread He hath broken.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He hath sent before them a man, For a servant hath Joseph been sold.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They have afflicted with fetters his feet, Iron hath entered his soul,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Till the time of the coming of His word The saying of Jehovah hath tried him.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The king hath sent, and looseth him, The ruler of the peoples, and draweth him out.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He hath made him lord of his house, And ruler over all his possessions.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> To bind his chiefs at his pleasure, And his elders he maketh wise.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Israel cometh in to Egypt, And Jacob hath sojourned in the land of Ham.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And He maketh His people very fruitful, And maketh it mightier than its adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He turned their heart to hate His people, To conspire against His servants.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He hath sent Moses His servant, Aaron whom He had fixed on.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They have set among them the matters of His signs, And wonders in the land of Ham.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He hath sent darkness, and it is dark, And they have not provoked His word.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He hath turned their waters to blood, And putteth to death their fish.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Teemed hath their land [with] frogs, In the inner chambers of their kings.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He hath said, and the beetle cometh, Lice into all their border.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He hath made their showers hail, A flaming fire [is] in their land.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And He smiteth their vine and their fig, And shivereth the trees of their border.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He hath said, and the locust cometh, And the cankerworm--innumerable,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And it consumeth every herb in their land, And it consumeth the fruit of their ground.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And He smiteth every first-born in their land, The first-fruit of all their strength,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And bringeth them out with silver and gold, And there is not in its tribes a feeble one.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Rejoiced hath Egypt in their going forth, For their fear had fallen upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He hath spread a cloud for a covering, And fire to enlighten the night.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> They have asked, and He bringeth quails, And [with] bread of heaven satisfieth them.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He hath opened a rock, and waters issue, They have gone on in dry places--a river.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> For He hath remembered His holy word, With Abraham His servant,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And He bringeth forth His people with joy, With singing His chosen ones.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And He giveth to them the lands of nations, And the labour of peoples they possess,</p>

<p><a id="c105_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> That they may observe His statutes, And His laws may keep. Praise ye Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>