<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 103</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 103</h2>

<p><a id="c103_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By David. Bless, O my soul, Jehovah, And all my inward parts--His Holy Name.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bless, O my soul, Jehovah, And forget not all His benefits,</p>

<p><a id="c103_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who is forgiving all thine iniquities, Who is healing all thy diseases,</p>

<p><a id="c103_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who is redeeming from destruction thy life, Who is crowning thee--kindness and mercies,</p>

<p><a id="c103_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who is satisfying with good thy desire, Renew itself as an eagle doth thy youth.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah is doing righteousness and judgments For all the oppressed.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He maketh known His ways to Moses, To the sons of Israel His acts.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Merciful and gracious [is] Jehovah, Slow to anger, and abundant in mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Not for ever doth He strive, Nor to the age doth He watch.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Not according to our sins hath He done to us, Nor according to our iniquities Hath He conferred benefits upon us.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For, as the height of the heavens [is] above the earth, His kindness hath been mighty over those fearing Him.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As the distance of east from west He hath put far from us our transgressions.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As a father hath mercy on sons, Jehovah hath mercy on those fearing Him.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For He hath known our frame, Remembering that we [are] dust.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Mortal man! as grass [are] his days, As a flower of the field so he flourisheth;</p>

<p><a id="c103_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For a wind hath passed over it, and it is not, And its place doth not discern it any more.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the kindness of Jehovah [Is] from age even unto age on those fearing Him, And His righteousness to sons' sons,</p>

<p><a id="c103_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To those keeping His covenant, And to those remembering His precepts to do them.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jehovah in the heavens Hath established His throne, And His kingdom over all hath ruled.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Bless Jehovah, ye His messengers, Mighty in power--doing His word, To hearken to the voice of His Word.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bless Jehovah, all ye His hosts, His ministers--doing His pleasure.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Bless Jehovah, all ye His works, In all places of His dominion. Bless, O my soul, Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>