<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 143</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 143</h2>

<p><a id="c143_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David. O Jehovah, hear my prayer, Give ear unto my supplications, In Thy faithfulness answer me--in Thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And enter not into judgment with Thy servant, For no one living is justified before Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For an enemy hath pursued my soul, He hath bruised to the earth my life, He hath caused me to dwell in dark places, As the dead of old.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And my spirit in me is become feeble, Within me is my heart become desolate.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have remembered days of old, I have meditated on all Thine acts, On the work of Thy hand I muse.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have spread forth my hands unto Thee, My soul [is] as a weary land for Thee. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Haste, answer me, O Jehovah, My spirit hath been consumed, Hide not Thou Thy face from me, Or I have been compared with those going down [to] the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cause me to hear in the morning Thy kindness, For in Thee I have trusted, Cause me to know the way that I go, For unto Thee I have lifted up my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Deliver me from mine enemies, O Jehovah, Near Thee I am covered.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Teach me to do Thy good pleasure, For Thou [art] my God--Thy Spirit [is] good, Lead me into a land of uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For Thy name's sake O Jehovah, Thou dost quicken me, In Thy righteousness, Thou bringest out from distress my soul,</p>

<p><a id="c143_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And in Thy kindness cuttest off mine enemies, And hast destroyed all the adversaries of my soul, For I [am] Thy servant!</p>

</body>
</html>