<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Psalm of David, `To cause to remember.' Jehovah, in Thy wrath reprove me not, Nor in Thy fury chastise me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For Thine arrows have come down on me, And Thou lettest down upon me Thy hand.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Soundness is not in my flesh, Because of Thine indignation, Peace is not in my bones because of my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For mine iniquities have passed over my head, As a heavy burden--too heavy for me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Stunk--become corrupt have my wounds, Because of my folly.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have been bent down, I have been bowed down--unto excess, All the day I have gone mourning.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For my flanks have been full of drought, And soundness is not in my flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have been feeble and smitten--unto excess, I have roared from disquietude of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lord, before Thee [is] all my desire, And my sighing from Thee hath not been hid.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My heart [is] panting, my power hath forsaken me, And the light of mine eyes, Even they are not with me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My lovers and my friends over-against my plague stand. And my neighbours afar off have stood.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And those seeking my soul lay a snare, And those seeking my evil Have spoken mischievous things, And they do deceits meditate all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I, as deaf, hear not. And as a dumb one who openeth not his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yea, I am as a man who heareth not, And in his mouth are no reproofs.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Because for Thee, O Jehovah, I have waited, Thou dost answer, O Lord my God.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When I said, `Lest they rejoice over me, In the slipping of my foot against me they magnified themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I am ready to halt, And my pain [is] before me continually.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For mine iniquity I declare, I am sorry for my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And mine enemies [are] lively, They have been strong, and those hating me without cause, Have been multiplied.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And those paying evil for good accuse me, Because of my pursuing good.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Do not forsake me, O Jehovah, My God, be not far from me,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation!</p>

</body>
</html>