<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --By sons of Korah. A Psalm. Hear this, all ye peoples, Give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Both low and high, together rich and needy.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My mouth speaketh wise things, And the meditations of my heart [are] things of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I incline to a simile mine ear, I open with a harp my riddle:</p>

<p><a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why do I fear in days of evil? The iniquity of my supplanters doth compass me.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Those trusting on their wealth, And in the multitude of their riches, Do shew themselves foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A brother doth no one at all ransom, He doth not give to God his atonement.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And precious [is] the redemption of their soul, And it hath ceased--to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And still he liveth for ever, He seeth not the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he seeth wise men die, Together the foolish and brutish perish, And have left to others their wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their heart [is]: Their houses [are] to the age, Their tabernacles to all generations. They proclaimed their names over the lands.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And man in honour doth not remain, He hath been like the beasts, they have been cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This their way [is] folly for them, And their posterity with their sayings are pleased. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As sheep for Sheol they have set themselves, Death doth afflict them, And the upright rule over them in the morning, And their form [is] for consumption. Sheol [is] a dwelling for him.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Only, God doth ransom my soul from the hand of Sheol, For He doth receive me. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Fear not, when one maketh wealth, When the honour of his house is abundant,</p>

<p><a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For at his death he receiveth nothing, His honour goeth not down after him.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For his soul in his life he blesseth, (And they praise thee when thou dost well for thyself.)</p>

<p><a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It cometh to the generation of his fathers, For ever they see not the light.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Man in honour, who understandest not, Hath been like the beasts, they have been cut off!</p>

</body>
</html>