<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 68</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 68</h2>

<p><a id="c68_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm, a song of David. Rise doth God--scattered are His enemies! And those hating Him flee from His face.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As the driving away of smoke Thou drivest away, As the melting of wax before fire, The wicked perish at the presence of God.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the righteous rejoice, they exult before God, And they joy with gladness.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sing ye to God--praise His name, Raise up a highway for Him who is riding in deserts, In Jah [is] His name, and exult before Him.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Father of the fatherless, and judge of the widows, [Is] God in His holy habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God--causing the lonely to dwell at home, Bringing out bound ones into prosperity, Only--the refractory have inhabited a dry place.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O God, in Thy going forth before Thy people, In Thy stepping through the wilderness, Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The earth hath shaken, Yea, the heavens have dropped before God, This Sinai--before God, the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A shower of free-will gifts thou shakest out, O God. Thine inheritance, when it hath been weary, Thou hast established it.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy company have dwelt in it, Thou preparest in Thy goodness for the poor, O God.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Lord doth give the saying, The female proclaimers [are] a numerous host.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Kings of hosts flee utterly away, And a female inhabitant of the house apportioneth spoil.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Though ye do lie between two boundaries, Wings of a dove covered with silver, And her pinions with yellow gold.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When the Mighty spreadeth kings in it, It doth snow in Salmon.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A hill of God [is] the hill of Bashan, A hill of heights [is] the hill of Bashan.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Why do ye envy, O high hills, The hill God hath desired for His seat? Jehovah also doth tabernacle for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The chariots of God [are] myriads, thousands of changes, The Lord [is] among them, in Sinai, in the sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou hast ascended on high, Thou hast taken captive captivity, Thou hast taken gifts for men, That even the refractory may rest, O Jah God.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Blessed [is] the Lord, day by day He layeth on us. God Himself [is] our salvation. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> God Himself [is] to us a God for deliverances, And Jehovah Lord hath the outgoings of death.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Only--God doth smite The head of His enemies, The hairy crown of a habitual walker in his guilt.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Lord said: `From Bashan I bring back, I bring back from the depths of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> So that thou dashest thy foot in blood, [In the blood of] enemies--the tongue of Thy dogs.'</p>

<p><a id="c68_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They have seen Thy goings, O God, Goings of my God, my king, in the sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Singers have been before, Behind [are] players on instruments, In the midst virgins playing with timbrels.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In assemblies bless ye God, The Lord--from the fountain of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> There [is] little Benjamin their ruler, Heads of Judah their defence, Heads of Zebulun--heads of Naphtali.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thy God hath commanded thy strength, Be strong, O God, this Thou hast wrought for us.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Because of Thy temple at Jerusalem, To Thee do kings bring a present.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Rebuke a beast of the reeds, a company of bulls, With calves of the peoples, Each humbling himself with pieces of silver, Scatter Thou peoples delighting in conflicts.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Come do fat ones out of Egypt, Cush causeth her hands to run to God.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Kingdoms of the earth, sing ye to God, Praise ye the Lord. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> To him who is riding on the heavens of the heavens of old, Lo, He giveth with His voice a strong voice.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Ascribe ye strength to God, Over Israel [is] His excellency, and His strength in the clouds.</p>

<p><a id="c68_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Fearful, O God, out of Thy sanctuaries, The God of Israel Himself, Giving strength and might to the people. Blessed [is] God!</p>

</body>
</html>