<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --A Psalm of David. O the happiness of him Who is acting wisely unto the poor, In a day of evil doth Jehovah deliver him.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah doth preserve him and revive him, He is happy in the land, And Thou givest him not into the will of his enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah supporteth on a couch of sickness, All his bed Thou hast turned in his weakness.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I--I said, `O Jehovah, favour me, Heal my soul, for I did sin against Thee,'</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Mine enemies say evil of me: When he dieth--his name hath perished!</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if he came to see--vanity he speaketh, His heart gathereth iniquity to itself, He goeth out--at the street he speaketh.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All hating me whisper together against me, Against me they devise evil to me:</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A thing of Belial is poured out on him, And because he lay down he riseth not again.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Even mine ally, in whom I trusted, One eating my bread, made great the heel against me,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Thou, Jehovah, favour me, And cause me to rise, And I give recompence to them.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By this I have known, That Thou hast delighted in me, Because my enemy shouteth not over me.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As to me, in mine integrity, Thou hast taken hold upon me, And causest me to stand before Thee to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Blessed [is] Jehovah, God of Israel, From the age--and unto the age. Amen and Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>