<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 62</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 62</h2>

<p><a id="c62_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer, for Jeduthun. --A Psalm of David. Only--toward God [is] my soul silent, From Him [is] my salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Only--He [is] my rock, and my salvation, My tower, I am not much moved.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Till when do ye devise mischief against a man? Ye are destroyed all of you, As a wall inclined, a hedge that is cast down.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Only--from his excellency They have consulted to drive away, They enjoy a lie, with their mouth they bless, And with their heart revile. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Only--for God, be silent, O my soul, For from Him [is] my hope.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Only--He [is] my rock and my salvation, My tower, I am not moved.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> On God [is] my salvation, and my honour, The rock of my strength, my refuge [is] in God.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Trust in Him at all times, O people, Pour forth before Him your heart, God [is] a refuge for us. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Only--vanity [are] the low, a lie the high. In balances to go up they than vanity [are] lighter.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Trust not in oppression, And in robbery become not vain, Wealth--when it increaseth--set not the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Once hath God spoken, twice I heard this, That `strength [is] with God.'</p>

<p><a id="c62_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And with Thee, O Lord, [is] kindness, For Thou dost recompense to each, According to his work!</p>

</body>
</html>