<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 94</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 94</h2>

<p><a id="c94_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God of vengeance--Jehovah! God of vengeance, shine forth.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Be lifted up, O Judge of the earth, Send back a recompence on the proud.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Till when [do] the wicked, O Jehovah? Till when do the wicked exult?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They utter--they speak an old saw, All working iniquity do boast themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thy people, O Jehovah, they bruise, And Thine inheritance they afflict.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Widow and sojourner they slay, And fatherless ones they murder.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they say, `Jehovah doth not see, And the God of Jacob doth not consider.'</p>

<p><a id="c94_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Consider, ye brutish among the people, And ye foolish, when do ye act wisely?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He who planteth the ear doth He not hear? He who formeth the eye doth He not see?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He who is instructing nations, Doth He not reprove? He who is teaching man knowledge [is] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He knoweth the thoughts of man, that they [are] vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O the happiness of the man Whom Thou instructest, O Jah, And out of Thy law teachest him,</p>

<p><a id="c94_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> To give rest to him from days of evil, While a pit is digged for the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Jehovah leaveth not His people, And His inheritance forsaketh not.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For to righteousness judgment turneth back, And after it all the upright of heart,</p>

<p><a id="c94_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who riseth up for me with evil doers? Who stationeth himself for me with workers of iniquity?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Unless Jehovah [were] a help to me, My soul had almost inhabited silence.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I have said, `My foot hath slipped,' Thy kindness, O Jehovah, supporteth me.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the abundance of my thoughts within me, Thy comforts delight my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Is a throne of mischief joined [with] Thee? A framer of perverseness by statute?</p>

<p><a id="c94_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They decree against the soul of the righteous, And innocent blood declare wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c94_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jehovah is for a high place to me, And my God [is] for a rock--my refuge,</p>

<p><a id="c94_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And turneth back on them their iniquity, And in their wickedness cutteth them off; Jehovah our God doth cut them off!</p>

</body>
</html>