<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Sing, ye righteous, in Jehovah, For upright ones praise [is] comely.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Give ye thanks to Jehovah with a harp, With psaltery of ten strings sing praise to Him,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sing ye to Him a new song, Play skilfully with shouting.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For upright [is] the word of Jehovah, And all His work [is] in faithfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Loving righteousness and judgment, Of the kindness of Jehovah is the earth full.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By the word of Jehovah The heavens have been made, And by the breath of His mouth all their host.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gathering as a heap the waters of the sea, Putting in treasuries the depths.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Afraid of Jehovah are all the earth, Of Him are all the inhabitants of the world afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For He hath said, and it is, He hath commanded, and it standeth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jehovah made void the counsel of nations, He disallowed the thoughts of the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The counsel of Jehovah to the age standeth, The thoughts of His heart to all generations.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O the happiness of the nation whose God [is] Jehovah, Of the people He did choose, For an inheritance to Him.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> From the heavens hath Jehovah looked, He hath seen all the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From the fixed place of His dwelling, He looked unto all inhabitants of the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Who is forming their hearts together, Who is attending unto all their works.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The king is not saved by the multitude of a force. A mighty man is not delivered, By abundance of power.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A false thing [is] the horse for safety, And by the abundance of his strength He doth not deliver.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lo, the eye of Jehovah [is] to those fearing Him, To those waiting for His kindness,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> To deliver from death their soul, And to keep them alive in famine.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Our soul hath waited for Jehovah, Our help and our shield [is] He,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For in Him doth our heart rejoice, For in His holy name we have trusted.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let Thy kindness, O Jehovah, be upon us, As we have waited for Thee!</p>

</body>
</html>