<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 69</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 69</h2>

<p><a id="c69_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`On the Lilies,' by David. Save me, O God, for come have waters unto the soul.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have sunk in deep mire, And there is no standing, I have come into the depths of the waters, And a flood hath overflown me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have been wearied with my calling, Burnt hath been my throat, Consumed have been mine eyes, waiting for my God.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Those hating me without cause Have been more than the hairs of my head, Mighty have been my destroyers, My lying enemies, That which I took not away--I bring back.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O God, Thou--Thou hast known Concerning my overturn, And my desolations from Thee have not been hid.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let not those waiting on Thee be ashamed because of me, O Lord, Jehovah of Hosts, Let not those seeking Thee Blush because of me, O God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For because of Thee I have borne reproach, Shame hath covered my face.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A stranger I have been to my brother, And a foreigner to sons of my mother.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For zeal for Thy house hath consumed me, And the reproaches of Thy reproachers Have fallen upon me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I weep in the fasting of my soul, And it is for a reproach to me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I make my clothing sackcloth, And I am to them for a simile.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Those sitting at the gate meditate concerning me, And those drinking strong drink, Play on instruments.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I--my prayer [is] to Thee, O Jehovah, A time of good pleasure, O God, In the abundance of Thy kindness, Answer me in the truth of Thy salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Deliver me from the mire, and let me not sink, Let me be delivered from those hating me, And from deep places of waters.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let not a flood of waters overflow me, Nor let the deep swallow me up, Nor let the pit shut her mouth upon me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Answer me, O Jehovah, for good [is] Thy kindness, According to the abundance Of Thy mercies turn Thou unto me,</p>

<p><a id="c69_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And hide not Thy face from Thy servant, For I am in distress--haste, answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Be near unto my soul--redeem it, Because of mine enemies ransom me.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou--Thou hast known my reproach, And my shame, and my blushing, Before Thee [are] all mine adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Reproach hath broken my heart, and I am sick, And I look for a bemoaner, and there is none, And for comforters, and I have found none.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they give for my food gall, And for my thirst cause me to drink vinegar.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Their table before them is for a snare, And for a recompence--for a trap.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Darkened are their eyes from seeing, And their loins continually shake Thou.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Pour upon them Thine indignation, And the fierceness of Thine anger doth seize them.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Their tower is desolated, In their tents there is no dweller.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For they have pursued him Thou hast smitten, And recount of the pain of Thy pierced ones.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Give punishment for their iniquity, And they enter not into Thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They are blotted out of the book of life, And with the righteous are not written.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I [am] afflicted and pained, Thy salvation, O God, doth set me on high.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I praise the name of God with a song, And I magnify Him with thanksgiving,</p>

<p><a id="c69_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And it is better to Jehovah than an ox, A bullock--horned--hoofed.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The humble have seen--they rejoice, Ye who seek God--and your heart liveth.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For Jehovah hearkeneth unto the needy, And His bound ones He hath not despised.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The heavens and earth do praise Him, Seas, and every moving thing in them.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For God doth save Zion, And doth build the cities of Judah, And they have dwelt there, and possess it.</p>

<p><a id="c69_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the seed of His servants inherit it, And those loving His name dwell in it!</p>

</body>
</html>