<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 85</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 85</h2>

<p><a id="c85_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --By sons of Korah. A Psalm. Thou hast accepted, O Jehovah, Thy land, Thou hast turned [to] the captivity of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast borne away the iniquity of Thy people, Thou hast covered all their sin. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast gathered up all Thy wrath, Thou hast turned back from the fierceness of Thine anger.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Turn back [to] us, O God of our salvation, And make void Thine anger with us.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To the age art Thou angry against us? Dost Thou draw out Thine anger To generation and generation?</p>

<p><a id="c85_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Dost Thou not turn back? Thou revivest us, And Thy people do rejoice in Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Show us, O Jehovah, thy kindness, And Thy salvation Thou dost give to us.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I hear what God Jehovah speaketh, For He speaketh peace unto His people, And unto His saints, and they turn not back to folly.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Only, near to those fearing Him [is] His salvation, That honour may dwell in our land.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Kindness and truth have met, Righteousness and peace have kissed,</p>

<p><a id="c85_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Truth from the earth springeth up, And righteousness from heaven looketh out,</p>

<p><a id="c85_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jehovah also giveth that which is good, And our land doth give its increase.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Righteousness before Him goeth, And maketh His footsteps for a way!</p>

</body>
</html>