<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 148</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 148</h2>

<p><a id="c148_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye Jah! Praise ye Jehovah from the heavens, Praise ye Him in high places.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Praise ye Him, all His messengers, Praise ye Him, all His hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise ye Him, sun and moon, Praise ye Him, all stars of light.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Praise ye Him, heavens of heavens, And ye waters that are above the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They do praise the name of Jehovah, For He commanded, and they were created.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And He establisheth them for ever to the age, A statute He gave, and they pass not over.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Praise ye Jehovah from the earth, Dragons and all deeps,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Fire and hail, snow and vapour, Whirlwind doing His word;</p>

<p><a id="c148_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The mountains and all heights, Fruit tree, and all cedars,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The wild beast, and all cattle, Creeping thing, and winged bird,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Kings of earth, and all peoples, Chiefs, and all judges of earth,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Young men, and also maidens, Aged men, with youths,</p>

<p><a id="c148_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They praise the name of Jehovah, For His name alone hath been set on high, His honour [is] above earth and heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c148_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And He exalteth the horn of His people, The praise of all His saints, Of the sons of Israel, a people near Him. Praise ye Jah!</p>

</body>
</html>