<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 132</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 132</h2>

<p><a id="c132_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A Song of the Ascents. Remember, Jehovah, for David, all his afflictions.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who hath sworn to Jehovah. He hath vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob:</p>

<p><a id="c132_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> `If I enter into the tent of my house, If I go up on the couch of my bed,</p>

<p><a id="c132_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If I give sleep to mine eyes, To mine eyelids--slumber,</p>

<p><a id="c132_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Till I do find a place for Jehovah, Tabernacles for the Mighty One of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> `Lo, we have heard it in Ephratah, We have found it in the fields of the forest.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> We come in to His tabernacles, We bow ourselves at His footstool.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Arise, O Jehovah, to Thy rest, Thou, and the ark of Thy strength,</p>

<p><a id="c132_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thy priests do put on righteousness, And Thy pious ones cry aloud.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the sake of David Thy servant, Turn not back the face of Thine anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah hath sworn truth to David, He turneth not back from it: Of the fruit of thy body, I set on the throne for thee.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thy sons keep My covenant, And My testimonies that I teach them, Their sons also for ever and ever, Do sit on the throne for thee.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For Jehovah hath fixed on Zion, He hath desired [it] for a seat to Himself,</p>

<p><a id="c132_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> This [is] My rest for ever and ever, Here do I sit, for I have desired it.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Her provision I greatly bless, Her needy ones I satisfy [with] bread,</p>

<p><a id="c132_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And her priests I clothe [with] salvation, And her pious ones do sing aloud.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There I cause to spring up a horn for David, I have arranged a lamp for Mine anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His enemies I do clothe [with] shame, And upon him doth his crown flourish!</p>

</body>
</html>