<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 106</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 106</h2>

<p><a id="c106_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye Jah, give thanks to Jehovah, For good, for to the age, [is] His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who doth utter the mighty acts of Jehovah? Soundeth all His praise?</p>

<p><a id="c106_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O the happiness of those keeping judgment, Doing righteousness at all times.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Remember me, O Jehovah, With the favour of Thy people, Look after me in Thy salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To look on the good of Thy chosen ones, To rejoice in the joy of Thy nation, To boast myself with Thine inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have sinned with our fathers, We have done perversely, we have done wickedly.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our fathers in Egypt, Have not considered wisely Thy wonders, They have not remembered The abundance of Thy kind acts, And provoke by the sea, at the sea of Suph.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And He saveth them for His name's sake, To make known His might,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And rebuketh the sea of Suph, and it is dried up, And causeth them to go Through depths as a wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And He saveth them from the hand Of him who is hating, And redeemeth them from the hand of the enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And waters cover their adversaries, One of them hath not been left.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they believe in His words, they sing His praise,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They have hasted--forgotten His works, They have not waited for His counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they lust greatly in a wilderness, And try God in a desert.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And He giveth to them their request, And sendeth leanness into their soul.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they are envious of Moses in the camp, Of Aaron, Jehovah's holy one.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Earth openeth, and swalloweth up Dathan, And covereth over the company of Abiram.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And fire burneth among their company, A flame setteth on fire the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They make a calf in Horeb, And bow themselves to a molten image,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And change their Honour Into the form of an ox eating herbs.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They have forgotten God their saviour, The doer of great things in Egypt,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Of wonderful things in the land of Ham, Of fearful things by the sea of Suph.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And He saith to destroy them, Unless Moses, His chosen one, Had stood in the breach before Him, To turn back His wrath from destroying.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they kick against the desirable land, They have not given credence to His word.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they murmur in their tents, They have not hearkened to the voice of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And He lifteth up His hand to them, To cause them to fall in a wilderness,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And to cause their seed to fall among nations, And to scatter them through lands.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they are coupled to Baal-Peor, And eat the sacrifices of the dead,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they provoke to anger by their actions, And a plague breaketh forth upon them,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Phinehas standeth, and executeth judgment, And the plague is restrained,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And it is reckoned to him to righteousness, To all generations--unto the age.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they cause wrath by the waters of Meribah, And it is evil to Moses for their sakes,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For they have provoked his spirit, And he speaketh wrongfully with his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They have not destroyed the peoples, As Jehovah had said to them,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And mix themselves among nations, and learn their works,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And serve their idols, And they are to them for a snare.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they sacrifice their sons And their daughters to destroyers,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And they shed innocent blood--Blood of their sons and of their daughters, Whom they have sacrificed to idols of Canaan, And the land is profaned with blood.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they are defiled with their works, And commit whoredom in their habitual doings.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the anger of Jehovah Is kindled against His people, And He doth abominate His inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And giveth them into the hand of nations, And those hating them rule over them,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And their enemies oppress them, And they are humbled under their hand.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Many times He doth deliver them, And they rebel in their counsel, And they are brought low in their iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And He looketh on their distress When He heareth their cry,</p>

<p><a id="c106_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And remembereth for them His covenant, And is comforted, According to the abundance of His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And He appointeth them for mercies Before all their captors.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Save us, O Jehovah our God, and gather us from the nations, To give thanks to Thy holy name, To glory in Thy praise.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Blessed [is] Jehovah, God of Israel, From the age even unto the age. And all the people said, `Amen, praise Jah!'</p>

</body>
</html>