<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 80</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 80</h2>

<p><a id="c80_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To the Overseer. --`On the Lilies.' A testimony of Asaph. --A Psalm. Shepherd of Israel, give ear, Leading Joseph as a flock, Inhabiting the cherubs--shine forth,</p>

<p><a id="c80_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before Ephraim, and Benjamin, and Manasseh, Wake up Thy might, and come for our salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O God, cause us to turn back, And cause Thy face to shine, and we are saved.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Jehovah, God of Hosts, till when? Thou hast burned against the prayer of Thy people.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast caused them to eat bread of tears, And causest them to drink With tears a third time.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou makest us a strife to our neighbours, And our enemies mock at it.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> God of Hosts, turn us back, And cause Thy face to shine, and we are saved.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A vine out of Egypt Thou dost bring, Thou dost cast out nations, and plantest it.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast looked before it, and dost root it, And it filleth the land,</p>

<p><a id="c80_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Covered have been hills [with] its shadow, And its boughs [are] cedars of God.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> It sendeth forth its branches unto the sea, And unto the river its sucklings.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why hast Thou broken down its hedges, And all passing by the way have plucked it?</p>

<p><a id="c80_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A boar out of the forest doth waste it, And a wild beast of the fields consumeth it.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> God of Hosts, turn back, we beseech Thee, Look from heaven, and see, and inspect this vine,</p>

<p><a id="c80_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the root that Thy right hand planted, And the branch Thou madest strong for Thee,</p>

<p><a id="c80_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Burnt with fire--cut down, From the rebuke of Thy face they perish.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let Thy hand be on the man of Thy right hand, On the son of man Thou hast strengthened for Thyself.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And we do not go back from Thee, Thou dost revive us, and in Thy name we call.</p>

<p><a id="c80_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O Jehovah, God of Hosts, turn us back, Cause Thy face to shine, and we are saved!</p>

</body>
</html>