<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 144</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 144</h2>

<p><a id="c144_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> By David. Blessed [is] Jehovah my rock, who is teaching My hands for war, my fingers for battle.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My kind one, and my bulwark, My tower, and my deliverer, My shield, and in whom I have trusted, Who is subduing my people under me!</p>

<p><a id="c144_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah, what [is] man that Thou knowest him? Son of man, that Thou esteemest him?</p>

<p><a id="c144_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Man to vanity hath been like, His days [are] as a shadow passing by.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jehovah, incline Thy heavens and come down, Strike against mountains, and they smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Send forth lightning, and scatter them, Send forth Thine arrows, and trouble them,</p>

<p><a id="c144_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Send forth Thy hand from on high, Free me, and deliver me from many waters, From the hand of sons of a stranger,</p>

<p><a id="c144_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Because their mouth hath spoken vanity, And their right hand [is] a right hand of falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O God, a new song I sing to Thee, On a psaltery of ten strings I sing praise to Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is giving deliverance to kings, Who is freeing David His servant from the sword of evil.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Free me, and deliver me From the hand of sons of a stranger, Because their mouth hath spoken vanity, And their right hand [is] a right hand of falsehood,</p>

<p><a id="c144_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because our sons [are] as plants, Becoming great in their youth, Our daughters as hewn stones, Polished--the likeness of a palace,</p>

<p><a id="c144_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Our garners [are] full, bringing out from kind to kind, Our flocks are bringing forth thousands, Ten thousands in our out-places,</p>

<p><a id="c144_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Our oxen are carrying, there is no breach, And there is no outgoing, And there is no crying in our broad places.</p>

<p><a id="c144_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> O the happiness of the people that is thus, O the happiness of the people whose God [is] Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>