<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 119</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 119</h2>

<p><a id="c119_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> [Aleph.] O the happiness of those perfect in the way, They are walking in the law of Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O the happiness of those keeping His testimonies, With the whole heart they seek Him.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yea, they have not done iniquity, In His ways they have walked.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou hast commanded us Thy precepts to keep diligently,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O that my ways were prepared to keep Thy statutes,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then I am not ashamed In my looking unto all Thy commands.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I confess Thee with uprightness of heart, In my learning the judgments of Thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy statutes I keep, leave me not utterly!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> [Beth.] With what doth a young man purify his path? To observe--according to Thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With all my heart I have sought Thee, Let me not err from Thy commands.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In my heart I have hid Thy saying, That I sin not before Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed [art] Thou, O Jehovah, teach me Thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With my lips I have recounted All the judgments of Thy mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In the way of Thy testimonies I have joyed, As over all wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In Thy precepts I meditate, And I behold attentively Thy paths.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In Thy statutes I delight myself, I do not forget Thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> [Gimel.] Confer benefits on Thy servant, I live, and I keep Thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Uncover mine eyes, and I behold wonders out of Thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A sojourner I [am] on earth, Hide not from me Thy commands.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Broken hath my soul for desire Unto Thy judgments at all times.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou hast rebuked the cursed proud, Who are erring from Thy commands.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Remove from me reproach and contempt, For Thy testimonies I have kept.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Princes also sat--against me they spoke, Thy servant doth meditate in Thy statutes,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thy testimonies also [are] my delight, The men of my counsel!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> [Daleth.] Cleaved to the dust hath my soul, Quicken me according to Thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> My ways I have recounted, And Thou answerest me, teach me Thy statutes,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The way of Thy precepts cause me to understand, And I meditate in Thy wonders.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My soul hath dropped from affliction, Establish me according to Thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The way of falsehood turn aside from me And with Thy law favour me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The way of faithfulness I have chosen, Thy judgments I have compared,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> I have adhered to Thy testimonies, O Jehovah, put me not to shame.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The way of Thy commands I run, For Thou dost enlarge my heart!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> [He.] Show me, O Jehovah, the way of Thy statutes, And I keep it--[to] the end.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Cause me to understand, and I keep Thy law, And observe it with the whole heart.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Cause me to tread in the path of Thy commands, For in it I have delighted.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Incline my heart unto Thy testimonies, And not unto dishonest gain.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Remove mine eyes from seeing vanity, In Thy way quicken Thou me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Establish to Thy servant Thy saying, That [is] concerning Thy fear.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Remove my reproach that I have feared, For Thy judgments [are] good.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Lo, I have longed for Thy precepts, In Thy righteousness quicken Thou me,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> [Waw.] And meet me doth Thy kindness, O Jehovah, Thy salvation according to Thy saying.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And I answer him who is reproaching me a word, For I have trusted in Thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Thou takest not utterly away From my mouth the word of truth, Because for Thy judgment I have hoped.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And I keep Thy law continually, To the age and for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And I walk habitually in a broad place, For Thy precepts I have sought.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And I speak of Thy testimonies before kings, And I am not ashamed.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And I delight myself in Thy commands, That I have loved,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And I lift up my hands unto Thy commands, That I have loved, And I do meditate on Thy statutes!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> [Zain.] Remember the word to Thy servant, On which Thou hast caused me to hope.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> This [is] my comfort in mine affliction, That Thy saying hath quickened me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> The proud have utterly scorned me, From Thy law I have not turned aside.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> I remembered Thy judgments of old, O Jehovah, And I comfort myself.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Horror hath seized me, Because of the wicked forsaking Thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Songs have been to me Thy statutes, In the house of my sojournings.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> I have remembered in the night Thy name, O Jehovah, And I do keep Thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> This hath been to me, That Thy precepts I have kept!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> [Cheth.] My portion [is] Jehovah; I have said--to keep Thy words,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> I appeased Thy face with the whole heart, Favour me according to Thy saying.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> I have reckoned my ways, And turn back my feet unto Thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> I have made haste, And delayed not, to keep Thy commands.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> Cords of the wicked have surrounded me, Thy law I have not forgotten.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> At midnight I rise to give thanks to Thee, For the judgments of Thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> A companion I [am] to all who fear Thee, And to those keeping Thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Of Thy kindness, O Jehovah, the earth is full, Thy statutes teach Thou me!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> [Teth.] Good Thou didst with Thy servant, O Jehovah, According to Thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> The goodness of reason and knowledge teach me, For in Thy commands I have believed.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Before I am afflicted, I--I am erring, And now Thy saying I have kept.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> Good Thou [art], and doing good, Teach me Thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> Forged against me falsehood have the proud, I with the whole heart keep Thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> Insensate as fat hath been their heart, I--in Thy law I have delighted.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> Good for me that I have been afflicted, That I might learn Thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> Better to me [is] the law of Thy mouth Than thousands of gold and silver!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> [Yod.] Thy hands made me and establish me, Cause me to understand, and I learn Thy commands.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> Those fearing Thee see me and rejoice, Because for Thy word I have hoped.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> I have known, O Jehovah, That righteous [are] Thy judgments, And [in] faithfulness Thou hast afflicted me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> Let, I pray Thee, Thy kindness be to comfort me, According to Thy saying to Thy servant.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> Meet me do Thy mercies, and I live, For Thy law [is] my delight.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> Ashamed are the proud, For [with] falsehood they dealt perversely with me. I meditate in Thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> Those fearing Thee turn back to me, And those knowing Thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> My heart is perfect in Thy statutes, So that I am not ashamed.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v81"></a><span class="vn">81</span> [Kaph.] Consumed for Thy salvation hath been my soul, For Thy word I have hoped.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v82"></a><span class="vn">82</span> Consumed have been mine eyes for Thy word, Saying, `When doth it comfort me?'</p>

<p><a id="c119_v83"></a><span class="vn">83</span> For I have been as a bottle in smoke, Thy statutes I have not forgotten.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v84"></a><span class="vn">84</span> How many [are] the days of Thy servant? When dost Thou execute Against my pursuers judgment?</p>

<p><a id="c119_v85"></a><span class="vn">85</span> The proud have digged for me pits, That [are] not according to Thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v86"></a><span class="vn">86</span> All Thy commands [are] faithfulness, [With] falsehood they have pursued me, Help Thou me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v87"></a><span class="vn">87</span> Almost consumed me on earth have they, And I--I have not forsaken Thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v88"></a><span class="vn">88</span> According to Thy kindness quicken Thou me, And I keep the testimony of Thy mouth!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v89"></a><span class="vn">89</span> [Lamed.] To the age, O Jehovah, Thy word is set up in the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v90"></a><span class="vn">90</span> To all generations Thy faithfulness, Thou didst establish earth, and it standeth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v91"></a><span class="vn">91</span> According to Thine ordinances They have stood this day, for the whole [are] Thy servants.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v92"></a><span class="vn">92</span> Unless Thy law [were] my delights, Then had I perished in mine affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v93"></a><span class="vn">93</span> To the age I forget not Thy precepts, For by them Thou hast quickened me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v94"></a><span class="vn">94</span> I [am] Thine, save Thou me, For Thy precepts I have sought.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v95"></a><span class="vn">95</span> Thy wicked waited for me to destroy me, Thy testimonies I understand.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v96"></a><span class="vn">96</span> Of all perfection I have seen an end, Broad [is] Thy command--exceedingly!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v97"></a><span class="vn">97</span> [Mem.] O how I have loved Thy law! All the day it [is] my meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v98"></a><span class="vn">98</span> Than mine enemies Thy command maketh me wiser, For it [is] before me to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v99"></a><span class="vn">99</span> Above all my teachers I have acted wisely. For Thy testimonies [are] my meditation.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v100"></a><span class="vn">100</span> Above elders I understand more, For Thy precepts I have kept.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v101"></a><span class="vn">101</span> From every evil path I restrained my feet, So that I keep Thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v102"></a><span class="vn">102</span> From Thy judgments I turned not aside, For Thou--Thou hast directed me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v103"></a><span class="vn">103</span> How sweet to my palate hath been Thy saying, Above honey to my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v104"></a><span class="vn">104</span> From Thy precepts I have understanding, Therefore I have hated every false path!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v105"></a><span class="vn">105</span> [Nun.] A lamp to my foot [is] Thy word, And a light to my path.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v106"></a><span class="vn">106</span> I have sworn, and I confirm [it], To keep the judgments of Thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v107"></a><span class="vn">107</span> I have been afflicted very much, O Jehovah, quicken me, according to Thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v108"></a><span class="vn">108</span> Free-will-offerings of my mouth, Accept, I pray Thee, O Jehovah, And Thy judgments teach Thou me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v109"></a><span class="vn">109</span> My soul [is] in my hand continually, And Thy law I have not forgotten.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v110"></a><span class="vn">110</span> The wicked have laid a snare for me, And from thy precepts I wandered not.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v111"></a><span class="vn">111</span> I have inherited Thy testimonies to the age, For the joy of my heart [are] they.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v112"></a><span class="vn">112</span> I have inclined my heart To do Thy statutes, to the age--[to] the end!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v113"></a><span class="vn">113</span> [Samech.] Doubting ones I have hated, And Thy law I have loved.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v114"></a><span class="vn">114</span> My hiding place and my shield [art] Thou, For Thy word I have hoped.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v115"></a><span class="vn">115</span> Turn aside from me, ye evil-doers, And I keep the commands of my God.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v116"></a><span class="vn">116</span> Sustain me according to Thy saying, And I live, and Thou puttest me not to shame Because of my hope.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v117"></a><span class="vn">117</span> Support Thou me, and I am saved, And I look on Thy statutes continually.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v118"></a><span class="vn">118</span> Thou hast trodden down All going astray from Thy statutes, For falsehood [is] their deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v119"></a><span class="vn">119</span> Dross! Thou hast caused to cease All the wicked of the earth; Therefore I have loved Thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v120"></a><span class="vn">120</span> Trembled from Thy fear hath my flesh, And from Thy judgments I have been afraid!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v121"></a><span class="vn">121</span> [Ain.] I have done judgment and righteousness, Leave me not to mine oppressors.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v122"></a><span class="vn">122</span> Make sure Thy servant for good, Let not the proud oppress me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v123"></a><span class="vn">123</span> Mine eyes have been consumed for Thy salvation. And for the saying of Thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v124"></a><span class="vn">124</span> Do with Thy servant according to Thy kindness. And Thy statutes teach Thou me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v125"></a><span class="vn">125</span> Thy servant [am] I--cause me to understand, And I know Thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v126"></a><span class="vn">126</span> Time for Jehovah to work! they have made void Thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v127"></a><span class="vn">127</span> Therefore I have loved Thy commands Above gold--even fine gold.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v128"></a><span class="vn">128</span> Therefore all my appointments I have declared wholly right, Every path of falsehood I have hated!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v129"></a><span class="vn">129</span> [Pe.] Wonderful [are] Thy testimonies, Therefore hath my soul kept them.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v130"></a><span class="vn">130</span> The opening of Thy words enlighteneth, Instructing the simple.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v131"></a><span class="vn">131</span> My mouth I have opened, yea, I pant, For, for Thy commands I have longed.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v132"></a><span class="vn">132</span> Look unto me, and favour me, As customary to those loving Thy name.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v133"></a><span class="vn">133</span> My steps establish by Thy saying, And any iniquity doth not rule over me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v134"></a><span class="vn">134</span> Ransom me from the oppression of man, And I observe Thy precepts,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v135"></a><span class="vn">135</span> Thy face cause to shine on Thy servant, And teach me Thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v136"></a><span class="vn">136</span> Rivulets of waters have come down mine eyes, Because they have not kept Thy law!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v137"></a><span class="vn">137</span> [Tzade.] Righteous [art] Thou, O Jehovah, And upright [are] Thy judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v138"></a><span class="vn">138</span> Thou hast appointed Thy testimonies, Righteous and exceeding faithful,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v139"></a><span class="vn">139</span> Cut me off hath my zeal, For mine adversaries forgot Thy words.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v140"></a><span class="vn">140</span> Tried [is] thy saying exceedingly, And Thy servant hath loved it.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v141"></a><span class="vn">141</span> Small I [am], and despised, Thy precepts I have not forgotten.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v142"></a><span class="vn">142</span> Thy righteousness [is] righteousness to the age, And Thy law [is] truth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v143"></a><span class="vn">143</span> Adversity and distress have found me, Thy commands [are] my delights.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v144"></a><span class="vn">144</span> The righteousness of Thy testimonies [is] to Cause me to understand, and I live!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v145"></a><span class="vn">145</span> [Koph.] I have called with the whole heart, Answer me, O Jehovah, Thy statutes I keep,</p>

<p><a id="c119_v146"></a><span class="vn">146</span> I have called Thee, save Thou me, And I do keep Thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v147"></a><span class="vn">147</span> I have gone forward in the dawn, and I cry, For Thy word I have hoped.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v148"></a><span class="vn">148</span> Mine eyes have gone before the watches, To meditate in Thy saying.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v149"></a><span class="vn">149</span> My voice hear, according to Thy kindness, Jehovah, according to Thy judgment quicken me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v150"></a><span class="vn">150</span> Near have been my wicked pursuers, From Thy law they have been far off.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v151"></a><span class="vn">151</span> Near [art] Thou, O Jehovah, And all Thy commands [are] truth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v152"></a><span class="vn">152</span> Of old I have known Thy testimonies, That to the age Thou hast founded them!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v153"></a><span class="vn">153</span> [Resh.] See my affliction, and deliver Thou me, For Thy law I have not forgotten.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v154"></a><span class="vn">154</span> Plead my plea, and redeem me, According to Thy saying quicken me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v155"></a><span class="vn">155</span> Far from the wicked [is] salvation, For Thy statutes they have not sought.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v156"></a><span class="vn">156</span> Thy mercies [are] many, O Jehovah, According to Thy judgments quicken me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v157"></a><span class="vn">157</span> Many [are] my pursuers, and adversaries, From Thy testimonies I have not turned aside.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v158"></a><span class="vn">158</span> I have seen treacherous ones, And grieve myself, Because Thy saying they have not kept.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v159"></a><span class="vn">159</span> See, for thy precepts I have loved, Jehovah, According to Thy kindness quicken me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v160"></a><span class="vn">160</span> The sum of Thy word [is] truth, And to the age [is] every judgment of Thy righteousness!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v161"></a><span class="vn">161</span> [Shin.] Princes have pursued me without cause, And because of Thy words was my heart afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v162"></a><span class="vn">162</span> I do rejoice concerning Thy saying, As one finding abundant spoil.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v163"></a><span class="vn">163</span> Falsehood I have hated, yea I abominate [it], Thy law I have loved.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v164"></a><span class="vn">164</span> Seven [times] in a day I have praised Thee, Because of the judgments of Thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v165"></a><span class="vn">165</span> Abundant peace have those loving Thy law, And they have no stumbling-block.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v166"></a><span class="vn">166</span> I have waited for Thy salvation, O Jehovah, And Thy commands I have done.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v167"></a><span class="vn">167</span> Kept hath my soul Thy testimonies, And I do love them exceedingly.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v168"></a><span class="vn">168</span> I have kept Thy precepts and Thy testimonies, For all my ways are before Thee!</p>

<p><a id="c119_v169"></a><span class="vn">169</span> [Taw.] My loud cry cometh near before Thee, O Jehovah; According to Thy word cause me to understand.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v170"></a><span class="vn">170</span> My supplication cometh in before Thee, According to Thy saying deliver Thou me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v171"></a><span class="vn">171</span> My lips do utter praise, For Thou dost teach me Thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v172"></a><span class="vn">172</span> My tongue doth sing of Thy saying, For all Thy commands [are] righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v173"></a><span class="vn">173</span> Thy hand is for a help to me, For Thy commands I have chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v174"></a><span class="vn">174</span> I have longed for Thy salvation, O Jehovah, And Thy law [is] my delight.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v175"></a><span class="vn">175</span> My soul liveth, and it doth praise Thee, And Thy judgments do help me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v176"></a><span class="vn">176</span> I wandered as a lost sheep, seek Thy servant, For Thy precepts I have not forgotten!</p>

</body>
</html>