<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Boast not thyself of to-morrow, For thou knowest not what a day bringeth forth.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let another praise thee, and not thine own mouth, A stranger, and not thine own lips.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A stone [is] heavy, and the sand [is] heavy, And the anger of a fool Is heavier than they both.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Fury [is] fierce, and anger [is] overflowing, And who standeth before jealousy?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Better [is] open reproof than hidden love.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Faithful are the wounds of a lover, And abundant the kisses of an enemy.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A satiated soul treadeth down a honeycomb, And [to] a hungry soul every bitter thing [is] sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As a bird wandering from her nest, So [is] a man wandering from his place.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart, And the sweetness of one's friend--from counsel of the soul.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thine own friend, and the friend of thy father, forsake not, And the house of thy brother enter not In a day of thy calamity, Better [is] a near neighbour than a brother afar off.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be wise, my son, and rejoice my heart. And I return my reproacher a word.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The prudent hath seen the evil, he is hidden, The simple have passed on, they are punished.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take his garment, when a stranger hath been surety, And for a strange woman pledge it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whoso is saluting his friend with a loud voice, In the morning rising early, A light thing it is reckoned to him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A continual dropping in a day of rain, And a woman of contentions are alike,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoso is hiding her hath hidden the wind, And the ointment of his right hand calleth out.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Iron by iron is sharpened, And a man sharpens the face of his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The keeper of a fig-tree eateth its fruit, And the preserver of his master is honoured.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As [in] water the face [is] to face, So the heart of man to man.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Sheol and destruction are not satisfied, And the eyes of man are not satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A refining pot [is] for silver, and a furnace for gold, And a man according to his praise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If thou dost beat the foolish in a mortar, Among washed things--with a pestle, His folly turneth not aside from off him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Know well the face of thy flock, Set thy heart to the droves,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For riches [are] not to the age, Nor a crown to generation and generation.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Revealed was the hay, and seen the tender grass, And gathered the herbs of mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Lambs [are] for thy clothing, And the price of the field [are] he-goats,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And a sufficiency of goats' milk [is] for thy bread, For bread to thy house, and life to thy damsels!</p>

</body>
</html>