<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Of man [are] arrangements of the heart, And from Jehovah an answer of the tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, And Jehovah is pondering the spirits.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Roll unto Jehovah thy works, And established are thy purposes,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> All things hath Jehovah wrought for Himself, And also the wicked [worketh] for a day of evil.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> An abomination to Jehovah [is] every proud one of heart, Hand to hand he is not acquitted.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In kindness and truth pardoned is iniquity, And in the fear of Jehovah Turn thou aside from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When a man's ways please Jehovah, even his enemies, He causeth to be at peace with him.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Better [is] a little with righteousness, Than abundance of increase without justice.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The heart of man deviseth his way, And Jehovah establisheth his step.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> An oath [is] on the lips of a king, In judgment his mouth trespasseth not.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A just beam and balances [are] Jehovah's, His work [are] all the stones of the bag.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> An abomination to kings [is] doing wickedness, For by righteousness is a throne established.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The delight of kings [are] righteous lips, And whoso is speaking uprightly he loveth,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The fury of a king [is] messengers of death, And a wise man pacifieth it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In the light of a king's face [is] life, And his good-will [is] as a cloud of the latter rain.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To get wisdom--how much better than gold, And to get understanding to be chosen than silver!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A highway of the upright [is], `Turn from evil,' Whoso is preserving his soul is watching his way.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Before destruction [is] pride, And before stumbling--a haughty spirit.'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Better is humility of spirit with the poor, Than to apportion spoil with the proud.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The wise in any matter findeth good, And whoso is trusting in Jehovah, O his happiness.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To the wise in heart is called, `Intelligent,' And sweetness of lips increaseth learning.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A fountain of life [is] understanding to its possessors, The instruction of fools is folly.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The heart of the wise causeth his mouth to act wisely, And by his lips he increaseth learning,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Sayings of pleasantness [are] a honeycomb, Sweet to the soul, and healing to the bone.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> There is a way right before a man, And its latter end--ways of death.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> A labouring man hath laboured for himself, For his mouth hath caused [him] to bend over it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> A worthless man is preparing evil, And on his lips--as a burning fire.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A froward man sendeth forth contention, A tale-bearer is separating a familiar friend.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> A violent man enticeth his neighbour, And hath causeth him to go in a way not good.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Consulting his eyes to devise froward things, Moving his lips he hath accomplished evil.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> A crown of beauty [are] grey hairs, In the way of righteousness it is found.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Better [is] the slow to anger than the mighty, And the ruler over his spirit than he who is taking a city.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Into the centre is the lot cast, And from Jehovah [is] all its judgment!</p>

</body>
</html>