<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A man often reproved, hardening the neck, Is suddenly broken, and there is no healing.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the multiplying of the righteous the people rejoice, And in the ruling of the wicked the people sigh.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A man loving wisdom rejoiceth his father, And a friend of harlots destroyeth wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A king by judgment establisheth a land, And one receiving gifts throweth it down.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A man taking a portion above his neighbour, Spreadeth a net for his own steps.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the transgression of the evil [is] a snare, And the righteous doth sing and rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The righteous knoweth the plea of the poor, The wicked understandeth not knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Men of scorning ensnare a city, And the wise turn back anger.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A wise man is judged by the foolish man, And he hath been angry, And he hath laughed, and there is no rest.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Men of blood hate the perfect, And the upright seek his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A fool bringeth out all his mind, And the wise till afterwards restraineth it.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A ruler who is attending to lying words, All his ministers [are] wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The poor and the man of frauds have met together, Jehovah is enlightening the eyes of them both.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> a king that is judging truly the poor, His throne for ever is established.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A rod and reproof give wisdom, And a youth let away is shaming his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In the multiplying of the wicked transgression multiplieth, And the righteous on their fall do look.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Chastise thy son, and he giveth thee comfort, Yea, he giveth delights to thy soul.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Without a Vision is a people made naked, And whoso is keeping the law, O his happiness!</p>

<p><a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> By words a servant is not instructed though he understand, And there is nothing answering.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou hast seen a man hasty in his words! More hope of a fool than of him.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoso is bringing up his servant delicately, from youth, [At] his latter end also he is continuator.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> An angry man stirreth up contention, And a furious man is multiplying transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The pride of man humbleth him, And humility of spirit upholdeth honour.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoso is sharing with a thief is hating his own soul, Execration he heareth, and telleth not.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Fear of man causeth a snare, And the confident in Jehovah is set on high.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Many are seeking the face of a ruler, And from Jehovah [is] the judgment of each.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> An abomination to the righteous [is] the perverse man, And an abomination to the wicked [is] the upright in the way!</p>

</body>
</html>