<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wisdom hath builded her house, She hath hewn out her pillars--seven.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> She hath slaughtered her slaughter, She hath mingled her wine, Yea, she hath arranged her table.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> She hath sent forth her damsels, She crieth on the tops of the high places of the city:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `Who [is] simple? let him turn aside hither.' Whoso lacketh heart: she hath said to him,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `Come, eat of my bread, And drink of the wine I have mingled.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Forsake ye, the simple, and live, And be happy in the way of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The instructor of a scorner Is receiving for it--shame, And a reprover of the wicked-- his blemish.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee, Give reproof to the wise, and he loveth thee.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Give to the wise, and he is wiser still, Make known to the righteous, And he increaseth learning.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The commencement of wisdom [is] the fear of Jehovah, And a knowledge of the Holy Ones [is] understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For by me do thy days multiply, And added to thee are years of life.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thou hast been wise, thou hast been wise for thyself, And thou hast scorned-- thyself bearest [it].</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A foolish woman [is] noisy, Simple, and hath not known what.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And she hath sat at the opening of her house, On a throne--the high places of the city,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To call to those passing by the way, Who are going straight [on] their paths.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `Who [is] simple? let him turn aside hither.' And whoso lacketh heart--she said to him,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `Stolen waters are sweet, And hidden bread is pleasant.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he hath not known that Rephaim [are] there, In deep places of Sheol her invited ones!</p>

</body>
</html>