<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, Thou considerest diligently that which [is] before thee,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And thou hast put a knife to thy throat, If thou [art] a man of appetite.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Have no desire to his dainties, seeing it [is] lying food.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Labour not to make wealth, From thine own understanding cease, Dost thou cause thine eyes to fly upon it? Then it is not.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For wealth maketh to itself wings, As an eagle it flieth to the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Eat not the bread of an evil eye, And have no desire to his dainties,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For as he hath thought in his soul, so [is] he, `Eat and drink,' saith he to thee, And his heart [is] not with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy morsel thou hast eaten thou dost vomit up, And hast marred thy words that [are] sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In the ears of a fool speak not, For he treadeth on the wisdom of thy words.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Remove not a border of olden times, And into fields of the fatherless enter not,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For their Redeemer [is] strong, He doth plead their cause with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Bring in to instruction thy heart, And thine ear to sayings of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Withhold not from a youth chastisement, When thou smitest him with a rod he dieth not.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou with a rod smitest him, And his soul from Sheol thou deliverest.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My son, if thy heart hath been wise, My heart rejoiceth, even mine,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And my reins exult when thy lips speak uprightly.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let not thy heart be envious at sinners, But--in the fear of Jehovah all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For, is there a posterity? Then thy hope is not cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hear thou, my son, and be wise, And make happy in the way thy heart,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Be not thou among quaffers of wine, Among gluttonous ones of flesh,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the quaffer and glutton become poor, And drowsiness clotheth with rags.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hearken to thy father, who begat thee, And despise not thy mother when she hath become old.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Truth buy, and sell not, Wisdom, and instruction, and understanding,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The father of the righteous rejoiceth greatly, The begetter of the wise rejoiceth in him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Rejoice doth thy father and thy mother, Yea, she that bare thee is joyful.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Give, my son, thy heart to me, And let thine eyes watch my ways.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For a harlot [is] a deep ditch, And a strange woman [is] a strait pit.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> She also, as catching prey, lieth in wait, And the treacherous among men she increaseth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? Who hath contentions? who hath plaint? Who hath wounds without cause? Who hath redness of eyes?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Those tarrying by the wine, Those going in to search out mixed wine.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> See not wine when it showeth itself red, When it giveth in the cup its colour, It goeth up and down through the upright.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Its latter end--as a serpent it biteth, And as a basilisk it stingeth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Thine eyes see strange women, And thy heart speaketh perverse things.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And thou hast been as one lying down in the heart of the sea, And as one lying down on the top of a mast.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> `They smote me, I have not been sick, They beat me, I have not known. When I awake--I seek it yet again!'</p>

</body>
</html>