<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son! to my wisdom give attention, To mine understanding incline thine ear,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To observe thoughtfulness, And knowledge do thy lips keep.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the lips of a strange woman drop honey, And smoother than oil [is] her mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And her latter end [is] bitter as wormwood, Sharp as a sword [with] mouths.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Her feet are going down to death, Sheol do her steps take hold of.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The path of life--lest thou ponder, Moved have her paths--thou knowest not.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And now, ye sons, hearken to me, And turn not from sayings of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Keep far from off her thy way, And come not near unto the opening of her house,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lest thou give to others thy honour, And thy years to the fierce,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lest strangers be filled [with] thy power, And thy labours in the house of a stranger,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thou hast howled in thy latter end, In the consumption of thy flesh and thy food,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And hast said, `How have I hated instruction, And reproof hath my heart despised,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I have not hearkened to the voice of my directors, And to my teachers have not inclined mine ear.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As a little thing I have been all evil, In the midst of an assembly and a company.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Drink waters out of thine own cistern, Even flowing ones out of thine own well.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let thy fountains be scattered abroad, In broad places rivulets of waters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let them be to thee for thyself, And not to strangers with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let thy fountain be blessed, And rejoice because of the wife of thy youth,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A hind of loves, and a roe of grace! Let her loves satisfy thee at all times, In her love magnify thyself continually.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And why dost thou magnify thyself, My son, with a stranger? And embrace the bosom of a strange woman?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For over-against the eyes of Jehovah are the ways of each, And all his paths He is pondering.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> His own iniquities do capture the wicked, And with the ropes of his sin he is holden.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He dieth without instruction, And in the abundance of his folly magnifieth himself!</p>

</body>
</html>