<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Better [is] a dry morsel, and rest with it, Than a house full of the sacrifices of strife.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A wise servant ruleth over a son causing shame, And in the midst of brethren He apportioneth an inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A refining pot [is] for silver, and a furnace for gold, And the trier of hearts [is] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> An evil doer is attentive to lips of vanity, Falsehood is giving ear to a mischievous tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whoso is mocking at the poor Hath reproached his Maker, Whoso is rejoicing at calamity is not acquitted.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sons' sons [are] the crown of old men, And the glory of sons [are] their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Not comely for a fool is a lip of excellency, Much less for a noble a lip of falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A stone of grace [is] the bribe in the eyes of its possessors, Whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoso is covering transgression is seeking love, And whoso is repeating a matter Is separating a familiar friend.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Rebuke cometh down on the intelligent More than a hundred stripes on a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> An evil man seeketh only rebellion, And a fierce messenger is sent against him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The meeting of a bereaved bear by a man, And--not a fool in his folly.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoso is returning evil for good, Evil moveth not from his house.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The beginning of contention [is] a letting out of waters, And before it is meddled with leave the strife.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whoso is justifying the wicked, And condemning the righteous, Even both of these [are] an abomination to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Why [is] this--a price in the hand of a fool to buy wisdom, And a heart there is none?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> At all times is the friend loving, And a brother for adversity is born.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A man lacking heart is striking hands, A surety he becometh before his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whoso is loving transgression is loving debate, Whoso is making high his entrance is seeking destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The perverse of heart findeth not good, And the turned in his tongue falleth into evil.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoso is begetting a fool hath affliction for it, Yea, the father of a fool rejoiceth not.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A rejoicing heart doth good to the body, And a smitten spirit drieth the bone.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A bribe from the bosom the wicked taketh, To turn aside the paths of judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The face of the intelligent [is] to wisdom, And the eyes of a fool--at the end of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A provocation to his father [is] a foolish son, And bitterness to her that bare him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Also, to fine the righteous is not good, To smite nobles for uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> One acquainted with knowledge is sparing his words, And the cool of temper [is] a man of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Even a fool keeping silence is reckoned wise, He who is shutting his lips intelligent!</p>

</body>
</html>