<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear, ye sons, the instruction of a father, And give attention to know understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For good learning I have given to you, My law forsake not.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, a son I have been to my father--tender, And an only one before my mother.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he directeth me, and he saith to me: `Let thy heart retain my words, Keep my commands, and live.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Get wisdom, get understanding, Do not forget, nor turn away From the sayings of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Forsake her not, and she doth preserve thee, Love her, and she doth keep thee.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The first thing [is] wisdom--get wisdom, And with all thy getting get understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Exalt her, and she doth lift thee up, She honoureth thee, when thou dost embrace her.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> She giveth to thy head a wreath of grace, A crown of beauty she doth give thee freely.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear, my son, and receive my sayings, And years of life [are] multiplied to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In a way of wisdom I have directed thee, I have caused thee to tread in paths of uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In thy walking thy step is not straitened, And if thou runnest, thou stumblest not.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Lay hold on instruction, do not desist, Keep her, for she [is] thy life.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Into the path of the wicked enter not, And be not happy in a way of evil doers.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Avoid it, pass not over into it, Turn aside from it, and pass on.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For they sleep not if they do not evil, And their sleep hath been taken violently away, If they cause not [some] to stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For they have eaten bread of wickedness, And wine of violence they drink.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the path of the righteous [is] as a shining light, Going and brightening till the day is established,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the wicked [is] as darkness, They have not known at what they stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, to my words give attention, To my sayings incline thine ear,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let them not turn aside from thine eyes, Preserve them in the midst of thy heart.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For life they [are] to those finding them, And to all their flesh healing.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Above every charge keep thy heart, For out of it [are] the outgoings of life.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Turn aside from thee a froward mouth, And perverse lips put far from thee,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Thine eyes do look straightforward, And thine eyelids look straight before thee.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Ponder thou the path of thy feet, And all thy ways [are] established.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Incline not [to] the right or to the left, Turn aside thy foot from evil!</p>

</body>
</html>