<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For [an object of] desire he who is separated doth seek, With all wisdom he intermeddleth.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A fool delighteth not in understanding, But--in uncovering his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> With the coming of the wicked come also hath contempt, And with shame-- reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Deep waters [are] the words of a man's mouth, The fountain of wisdom [is] a flowing brook.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Acceptance of the face of the wicked [is] not good, To turn aside the righteous in judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The lips of a fool enter into strife, And his mouth for stripes calleth.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The mouth of a fool [is] ruin to him, And his lips [are] the snare of his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The words of a tale-bearer [are] as self-inflicted wounds, And they have gone down [to] the inner parts of the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He also that is remiss in his work, A brother he [is] to a destroyer.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A tower of strength [is] the name of Jehovah, Into it the righteous runneth, and is set on high.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The wealth of the rich [is] the city of his strength, And as a wall set on high in his own imagination.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Before destruction the heart of man is high, And before honour [is] humility.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoso is answering a matter before he heareth, Folly it is to him and shame.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The spirit of a man sustaineth his sickness, And a smitten spirit who doth bear?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The heart of the intelligent getteth knowledge, And the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The gift of a man maketh room for him, And before the great it leadeth him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Righteous [is] the first in his own cause, His neighbour cometh and hath searched him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The lot causeth contentions to cease, And between the mighty it separateth.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A brother transgressed against is as a strong city, And contentions as the bar of a palace.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> From the fruit of a man's mouth is his belly satisfied, [From the] increase of his lips he is satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Death and life [are] in the power of the tongue, And those loving it eat its fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> [Whoso] hath found a wife hath found good, And bringeth out good-will from Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> [With] supplications doth the poor speak, And the rich answereth fierce things.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A man with friends [is] to show himself friendly, And there is a lover adhering more than a brother!</p>

</body>
</html>