<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whoso is loving instruction, is loving knowledge, And whoso is hating reproof [is] brutish.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The good bringeth forth favour from Jehovah, And the man of wicked devices He condemneth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A man is not established by wickedness, And the root of the righteous is not moved.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A virtuous woman [is] a crown to her husband, And as rottenness in his bones [is] one causing shame.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The thoughts of the righteous [are] justice, The counsels of the wicked--deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The words of the wicked [are]: `Lay wait for blood,' And the mouth of the upright delivereth them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Overthrow the wicked, and they are not, And the house of the righteous standeth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> According to his wisdom is a man praised, And the perverted of heart becometh despised.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Better [is] the lightly esteemed who hath a servant, Than the self-honoured who lacketh bread.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The righteous knoweth the life of his beast, And the mercies of the wicked [are] cruel.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whoso is tilling the ground is satisfied [with] bread, And whoso is pursuing vanities is lacking heart,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wicked hath desired the net of evil doers, And the root of the righteous giveth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In transgression of the lips [is] the snare of the wicked, And the righteous goeth out from distress.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From the fruit of the mouth [is] one satisfied [with] good, And the deed of man's hands returneth to him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The way of a fool [is] right in his own eyes, And whoso is hearkening to counsel [is] wise.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The fool--in a day is his anger known, And the prudent is covering shame.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whoso uttereth faithfulness declareth righteousness, And a false witness--deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A rash speaker is like piercings of a sword, And the tongue of the wise is healing.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The lip of truth is established for ever, And for a moment--a tongue of falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Deceit [is] in the heart of those devising evil, And to those counselling peace [is] joy.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> No iniquity is desired by the righteous, And the wicked have been full of evil.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> An abomination to Jehovah [are] lying lips, And stedfast doers [are] his delight.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A prudent man is concealing knowledge, And the heart of fools proclaimeth folly.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The hand of the diligent ruleth, And slothfulness becometh tributary.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Sorrow in the heart of a man boweth down, And a good word maketh him glad.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The righteous searcheth his companion, And the way of the wicked causeth them to err.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The slothful roasteth not his hunting, And the wealth of a diligent man is precious.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the path of righteousness [is] life, And in the way of [that] path [is] no death!</p>

</body>
</html>