<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be not envious of evil men, And desire not to be with them.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For destruction doth their heart meditate, And perverseness do their lips speak.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> By wisdom is a house builded, And by understanding it establisheth itself.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And by knowledge the inner parts are filled, [With] all precious and pleasant wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Mighty [is] the wise in strength, And a man of knowledge is strengthening power,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For by plans thou makest for thyself war, And deliverance [is] in a multitude of counsellors.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wisdom [is] high for a fool, In the gate he openeth not his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whoso is devising to do evil, Him they call a master of wicked thoughts.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The thought of folly [is] sin, And an abomination to man [is] a scorner.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou hast shewed thyself weak in a day of adversity, Straitened is thy power,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If [from] delivering those taken to death, And those slipping to the slaughter--thou keepest back.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When thou sayest, `Lo, we knew not this.' Is not the Ponderer of hearts He who understandeth? And the Keeper of thy soul He who knoweth? And He hath rendered to man according to his work.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Eat my son, honey that [is] good, And the honeycomb--sweet to thy palate.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So [is] the knowledge of wisdom to thy soul, If thou hast found that there is a posterity And thy hope is not cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lay not wait, O wicked one, At the habitation of the righteous. Do not spoil his resting-place.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For seven [times] doth the righteous fall and rise, And the wicked stumble in evil.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In the falling of thine enemy rejoice not, And in his stumbling let not thy heart be joyful,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lest Jehovah see, and [it be] evil in His eyes, And He hath turned from off him His anger.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Fret not thyself at evil doers, Be not envious at the wicked,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For there is not a posterity to the evil, The lamp of the wicked is extinguished.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Fear Jehovah, my son, and the king, With changers mix not up thyself,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For suddenly doth their calamity rise, And the ruin of them both--who knoweth!</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> These also are for the wise: --To discern faces in judgment is not good.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoso is saying to the wicked, `Thou [art] righteous,' Peoples execrate him-- nations abhor him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And to those reproving it is pleasant, And on them cometh a good blessing.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Lips he kisseth who is returning straightforward words.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Prepare in an out-place thy work, And make it ready in the field--go afterwards, Then thou hast built thy house.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Be not a witness for nought against thy neighbour, Or thou hast enticed with thy lips.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Say not, `As he did to me, so I do to him, I render to each according to his work.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Near the field of a slothful man I passed by, And near the vineyard of a man lacking heart.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And lo, it hath gone up--all of it--thorns! Covered its face have nettles, And its stone wall hath been broken down.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And I see--I--I do set my heart, I have seen--I have received instruction,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> A little sleep--a little slumber--A little folding of the hands to lie down.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And thy poverty hath come [as] a traveller, And thy want as an armed man!</p>

</body>
</html>