<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son! my law forget not, And my commands let thy heart keep,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For length of days and years, Life and peace they do add to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let not kindness and truth forsake thee, Bind them on thy neck, Write them on the tablet of thy heart,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And find grace and good understanding In the eyes of God and man.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Trust unto Jehovah with all thy heart, And unto thine own understanding lean not.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In all thy ways know thou Him, And He doth make straight thy paths.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be not wise in thine own eyes, Fear Jehovah, and turn aside from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Healing it is to thy navel, And moistening to thy bones.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Honour Jehovah from thy substance, And from the beginning of all thine increase;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And filled are thy barns [with] plenty, And [with] new wine thy presses break forth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Chastisement of Jehovah, my son, despise not, And be not vexed with His reproof,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For whom Jehovah loveth He reproveth, Even as a father the son He is pleased with.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O the happiness of a man [who] hath found wisdom, And of a man [who] bringeth forth understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For better [is] her merchandise Than the merchandise of silver, And than gold--her increase.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Precious she [is] above rubies, And all thy pleasures are not comparable to her.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Length of days [is] in her right hand, In her left [are] wealth and honour.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Her ways [are] ways of pleasantness, And all her paths [are] peace.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A tree of life she [is] to those laying hold on her, And whoso is retaining her [is] happy.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jehovah by wisdom did found the earth, He prepared the heavens by understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By His knowledge depths have been rent, And clouds do drop dew.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son! let them not turn from thine eyes, Keep thou wisdom and thoughtfulness,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they are life to thy soul, and grace to thy neck.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then thou goest thy way confidently, And thy foot doth not stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If thou liest down, thou art not afraid, Yea, thou hast lain down, And sweet hath been thy sleep.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Be not afraid of sudden fear, And of the desolation of the wicked when it cometh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For Jehovah is at thy side, And He hath kept thy foot from capture.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Withhold not good from its owners, When thy hand [is] toward God to do [it].</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Say not thou to thy friend, `Go, and return, and to-morrow I give,' And substance with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Devise not against thy neighbour evil, And he sitting confidently with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Strive not with a man without cause, If he have not done thee evil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Be not envious of a man of violence, Nor fix thou on any of his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For an abomination to Jehovah [is] the perverted, And with the upright [is] His secret counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The curse of Jehovah [is] in the house of the wicked. And the habitation of the righteous He blesseth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> If the scorners He doth scorn, Yet to the humble He doth give grace.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Honour do the wise inherit, And fools are bearing away shame!</p>

</body>
</html>