<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A wise son--the instruction of a father, And a scorner--he hath not heard rebuke.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> From the fruit of the mouth a man eateth good, And the soul of the treacherous-- violence.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Whoso is keeping his mouth, is keeping his soul, Whoso is opening wide his lips-- ruin to him!</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The soul of the slothful is desiring, and hath not. And the soul of the diligent is made fat.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A false word the righteous hateth, And the wicked causeth abhorrence, and is confounded.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Righteousness keepeth him who is perfect in the way, And wickedness overthroweth a sin offering.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There is who is making himself rich, and hath nothing, Who is making himself poor, and wealth [is] abundant.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The ransom of a man's life [are] his riches, And the poor hath not heard rebuke.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The light of the righteous rejoiceth, And the lamp of the wicked is extinguished.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A vain man through pride causeth debate, And with the counselled [is] wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wealth from vanity becometh little, And whoso is gathering by the hand becometh great.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hope prolonged is making the heart sick, And a tree of life [is] the coming desire.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoso is despising the Word is destroyed for it, And whoso is fearing the Command is repayed.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The law of the wise [is] a fountain of life, To turn aside from snares of death.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Good understanding giveth grace, And the way of the treacherous [is] hard.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Every prudent one dealeth with knowledge, And a fool spreadeth out folly.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A wicked messenger falleth into evil, And a faithful ambassador is healing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoso is refusing instruction--poverty and shame, And whoso is observing reproof is honoured.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A desire accomplished is sweet to the soul, And an abomination to fools [is]: Turn from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whoso is walking with wise men is wise, And a companion of fools suffereth evil.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Evil pursueth sinners, And good recompenseth the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A good man causeth sons' sons to inherit, And laid up for the righteous [is] the sinner's wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Abundance of food--the tillage of the poor, And substance is consumed without judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoso is sparing his rod is hating his son, And whoso is loving him hath hastened him chastisement.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The righteous is eating to the satiety of his soul, And the belly of the wicked lacketh!</p>

</body>
</html>