<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Better [is] the poor walking in his integrity, Than the perverse [in] his lips, who [is] a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Also, without knowledge the soul [is] not good, And the hasty in feet is sinning.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The folly of man perverteth his way, And against Jehovah is his heart wroth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wealth addeth many friends, And the poor from his neighbour is separated.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A false witness is not acquitted, Whoso breatheth out lies is not delivered.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Many entreat the face of the noble, And all have made friendship to a man of gifts.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the brethren of the poor have hated him, Surely also his friends have been far from him, He is pursuing words--they are not!</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whoso is getting heart is loving his soul, He is keeping understanding to find good.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A false witness is not acquitted, And whoso breatheth out lies perisheth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Luxury is not comely for a fool, Much less for a servant to rule among princes.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The wisdom of a man hath deferred his anger, And his glory [is] to pass over transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wrath of a king [is] a growl as of a young lion, And as dew on the herb his good-will.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A calamity to his father [is] a foolish son, And the contentions of a wife [are] a continual dropping.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> House and wealth [are] the inheritance of fathers, And from Jehovah [is] an understanding wife.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Sloth causeth deep sleep to fall, And an indolent soul doth hunger.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoso is keeping the command is keeping his soul, Whoso is despising His ways dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whoso is lending [to] Jehovah is favouring the poor, And his deed He repayeth to him.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Chastise thy son, for there is hope, And to put him to death lift not up thy soul.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A man of great wrath is bearing punishment, For, if thou dost deliver, yet again thou dost add.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Hear counsel and receive instruction, So that thou art wise in thy latter end.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Many [are] the purposes in a man's heart, And the counsel of Jehovah it standeth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The desirableness of a man [is] his kindness, And better [is] the poor than a liar.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The fear of Jehovah [is] to life, And satisfied he remaineth--he is not charged with evil.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The slothful hath hidden his hand in a dish, Even unto his mouth he bringeth it not back.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A scorner smite, and the simple acts prudently, And give reproof to the intelligent, He understandeth knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Whoso is spoiling a father causeth a mother to flee, A son causing shame, and bringing confusion.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Cease, my son, to hear instruction--To err from sayings of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A worthless witness scorneth judgment, And the mouth of the wicked swalloweth iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Judgments have been prepared for scorners, And stripes for the back of fools!</p>

</body>
</html>