<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Balances of deceit [are] an abomination to Jehovah, And a perfect weight [is] His delight.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Pride hath come, and shame cometh, And with the lowly [is] wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The integrity of the upright leadeth them, And the perverseness of the treacherous destroyeth them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wealth profiteth not in a day of wrath, And righteousness delivereth from death.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The righteousness of the perfect maketh right his way, And by his wickedness doth the wicked fall.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The righteousness of the upright delivereth them, And in mischief the treacherous are captured.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the death of a wicked man, hope perisheth, And the expectation of the iniquitous hath been lost.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The righteous from distress is drawn out, And the wicked goeth in instead of him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With the mouth a hypocrite corrupteth his friend, And by knowledge the righteous are drawn out.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In the good of the righteous a city exulteth, And in the destruction of the wicked [is] singing.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By the blessing of the upright is a city exalted, And by the mouth of the wicked thrown down.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whoso is despising his neighbour lacketh heart, And a man of understanding keepeth silence.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A busybody is revealing secret counsel, And the faithful of spirit is covering the matter.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Without counsels do a people fall, And deliverance [is] in a multitude of counsellors.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Evil [one] suffereth when he hath been surety [for] a stranger, And whoso is hating suretyship is confident.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A gracious woman retaineth honour, And terrible [men] retain riches.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A kind man is rewarding his own soul, And the fierce is troubling his own flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The wicked is getting a lying wage, And whoso is sowing righteousness--a true reward.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Rightly [is] righteousness for life, And whoso is pursuing evil--for his own death.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> An abomination to Jehovah [are] the perverse of heart, And the perfect of the way [are] His delight.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Hand to hand, the wicked is not acquitted, And the seed of the righteous hath escaped.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A ring of gold in the nose of a sow--A fair woman and stubborn of behaviour.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The desire of the righteous [is] only good, The hope of the wicked [is] transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> There is who is scattering, and yet is increased, And who is keeping back from uprightness, only to want.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A liberal soul is made fat, And whoso is watering, he also is watered.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Whoso is withholding corn, the people execrate him, And a blessing [is] for the head of him who is selling.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoso is earnestly seeking good Seeketh a pleasing thing, And whoso is seeking evil--it meeteth him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Whoso is confident in his wealth he falleth, And as a leaf, the righteous flourish.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Whoso is troubling his own house inheriteth wind, And a servant [is] the fool to the wise of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The fruit of the righteous [is] a tree of life, And whoso is taking souls [is] wise.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Lo, the righteous in the earth is recompensed, Surely also the wicked and the sinner!</p>

</body>
</html>