<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Also these are Proverbs of Solomon, that men of Hezekiah king of Judah transcribed: --</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The honour of God [is] to hide a thing, And the honour of kings to search out a matter.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The heavens for height, and the earth for depth, And the heart of kings--[are] unsearchable.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Take away dross from silver, And a vessel for the refiner goeth forth,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Take away the wicked before a king, And established in righteousness is his throne.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Honour not thyself before a king, And in the place of the great stand not.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For better [that] he hath said to thee, `Come thou up hither,' Than [that] he humble thee before a noble, Whom thine eyes have seen.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Go not forth to strive, haste, turn, What dost thou in its latter end, When thy neighbour causeth thee to blush?</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thy cause plead with thy neighbour, And the secret counsel of another reveal not,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lest the hearer put thee to shame, And thine evil report turn not back.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Apples of gold in imagery of silver, [Is] the word spoken at its fit times.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A ring of gold, and an ornament of pure gold, [Is] the wise reprover to an attentive ear.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As a vessel of snow in a day of harvest, [So is] a faithful ambassador to those sending him, And the soul of his masters he refresheth.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Clouds and wind, and rain there is none, [Is] a man boasting himself in a false gift.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By long-suffering is a ruler persuaded, And a soft tongue breaketh a bone.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Honey thou hast found--eat thy sufficiency, Lest thou be satiated [with] it, and hast vomited it.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house, Lest he be satiated [with] thee, and have hated thee.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow, [Is] the man testifying against his neighbour a false testimony.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A bad tooth, and a tottering foot, [Is] the confidence of the treacherous in a day of adversity.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whoso is taking away a garment in a cold day, [Is as] vinegar on nitre, And a singer of songs on a sad heart.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If he who is hating thee doth hunger, cause him to eat bread, And if he thirst, cause him to drink water.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For coals thou art putting on his head, And Jehovah giveth recompense to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A north wind bringeth forth rain, And a secret tongue--indignant faces.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Better to sit on a corner of a roof, Than [with] a woman of contentions, and a house of company.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> [As] cold waters for a weary soul, So [is] a good report from a far country.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> A spring troubled, and a fountain corrupt, [Is] the righteous falling before the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The eating of much honey is not good, Nor a searching out of one's own honour-- honour.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A city broken down without walls, [Is] a man without restraint over his spirit!</p>

</body>
</html>