<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son! keep my sayings, And my commands lay up with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Keep my commands, and live, And my law as the pupil of thine eye.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bind them on thy fingers, Write them on the tablet of thy heart.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Say to wisdom, `My sister Thou [art].' And cry to understanding, `Kinswoman!'</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To preserve thee from a strange woman, From a stranger who hath made smooth her sayings.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For, at a window of my house, Through my casement I have looked out,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I do see among the simple ones, I discern among the sons, A young man lacking understanding,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Passing on in the street, near her corner, And the way [to] her house he doth step,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In the twilight--in the evening of day, In the darkness of night and blackness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And, lo, a woman to meet him--(A harlot's dress, and watchful of heart,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Noisy she [is], and stubborn, In her house her feet rest not.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now in an out-place, now in broad places, And near every corner she lieth in wait) - -</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And she laid hold on him, and kissed him, She hath hardened her face, and saith to him,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `Sacrifices of peace-offerings [are] by me, To-day I have completed my vows.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore I have come forth to meet thee, To seek earnestly thy face, and I find thee.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> [With] ornamental coverings I decked my couch, Carved works--cotton of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I sprinkled my bed--myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Come, we are filled [with] loves till the morning, We delight ourselves in loves.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the man is not in his house, He hath gone on a long journey.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A bag of money he hath taken in his hand, At the day of the new moon he cometh to his house.'</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She turneth him aside with the abundance of her speech, With the flattery of her lips she forceth him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He is going after her straightway, As an ox unto the slaughter he cometh, And as a fetter unto the chastisement of a fool,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Till an arrow doth split his liver, As a bird hath hastened unto a snare, And hath not known that it [is] for its life.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And now, ye sons, hearken to me, And give attention to sayings of my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let not thy heart turn unto her ways, Do not wander in her paths,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For many [are] the wounded she caused to fall, And mighty [are] all her slain ones.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The ways of Sheol--her house, Going down unto inner chambers of death!</p>

</body>
</html>