<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Words of a Gatherer, son of an obedient one, the declaration, an affirmation of the man: --I have wearied myself [for] God, I have wearied myself [for] God, and am consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I am more brutish than any one, And have not the understanding of a man.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Nor have I learned wisdom, Yet the knowledge of Holy Ones I know.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who went up to heaven, and cometh down? Who hath gathered the wind in his fists? Who hath bound waters in a garment? Who established all ends of the earth? What [is] His name? and what His son's name? Surely thou knowest!</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Every saying of God [is] tried, A shield He [is] to those trusting in Him.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Add not to His words, lest He reason with thee, And thou hast been found false.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Two things I have asked from Thee, Withhold not from me before I die.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Vanity and a lying word put far from me, Poverty or wealth give not to me, Cause me to eat the bread of my portion,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lest I become satiated, and have denied, And have said, `Who [is] Jehovah?' And lest I be poor, and have stolen, And have laid hold of the name of my God.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Accuse not a servant unto his lord, Lest he disesteem thee, and thou be found guilty.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A generation [is], that lightly esteemeth their father, And their mother doth not bless.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A generation--pure in their own eyes, But from their own filth not washed.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A generation--how high are their eyes, Yea, their eyelids are lifted up.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A generation--swords [are] their teeth, And knives--their jaw-teeth, To consume the poor from earth, And the needy from [among] men.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To the leech [are] two daughters, `Give, give, Lo, three things are not satisfied, Four have not said `Sufficiency;'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Sheol, and a restrained womb, Earth--it [is] not satisfied [with] water, And fire--it hath not said, `Sufficiency,'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> An eye that mocketh at a father, And despiseth to obey a mother, Dig it out do ravens of the valley, And eat it do young eagles.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Three things have been too wonderful for me, Yea, four that I have not known:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the eagle in the heavens, The way of a serpent on a rock, The way of a ship in the heart of the sea, And the way of a man in youth.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So--the way of an adulterous woman, She hath eaten and hath wiped her mouth, And hath said, `I have not done iniquity.'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For three things hath earth been troubled, And for four--it is not able to bear:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For a servant when he reigneth, And a fool when he is satisfied with bread,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For a hated one when she ruleth, And a maid-servant when she succeedeth her mistress.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Four [are] little ones of earth, And they are made wiser than the wise:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The ants [are] a people not strong, And they prepare in summer their food,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Conies [are] a people not strong, And they place in a rock their house,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> A king there is not to the locust, And it goeth out--each one shouting,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A spider with two hands taketh hold, And is in the palaces of a king.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Three there are going well, Yea, four are good in going:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> An old lion--mighty among beasts, That turneth not back from the face of any,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> A girt one of the loins, or a he-goat, And a king--no rising up with him.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If thou hast been foolish in lifting up thyself, And if thou hast devised evil--hand to mouth!</p>

<p><a id="c30_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For the churning of milk bringeth out butter, And the wringing of the nose bringeth out blood, And the forcing of anger bringeth out strife!</p>

</body>
</html>