<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Every wise woman hath builded her house, And the foolish with her hands breaketh it down.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Whoso is walking in his uprightness is fearing Jehovah, And the perverted [in] his ways is despising Him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the mouth of a fool [is] a rod of pride, And the lips of the wise preserve them.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Without oxen a stall [is] clean, And great [is] the increase by the power of the ox.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A faithful witness lieth not, And a false witness breatheth out lies.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A scorner hath sought wisdom, and it is not, And knowledge to the intelligent [is] easy.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Go from before a foolish man, Or thou hast not known the lips of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The wisdom of the prudent [is] to understand his way, And the folly of fools [is] deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Fools mock at a guilt-offering, And among the upright--a pleasing thing.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The heart knoweth its own bitterness, And with its joy a stranger doth not intermeddle.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The house of the wicked is destroyed, And the tent of the upright flourisheth.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There is a way--right before a man, And its latter end [are] ways of death.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Even in laughter is the heart pained, And the latter end of joy [is] affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From his ways is the backslider in heart filled, And a good man--from his fruits.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The simple giveth credence to everything, And the prudent attendeth to his step.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The wise is fearing and turning from evil, And a fool is transgressing and is confident.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whoso is short of temper doth folly, And a man of wicked devices is hated.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The simple have inherited folly, And the prudent are crowned [with] knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The evil have bowed down before the good, And the wicked at the gates of the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Even of his neighbour is the poor hated, And those loving the rich [are] many.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoso is despising his neighbour sinneth, Whoso is favouring the humble, O his happiness.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Do not they err who are devising evil? And kindness and truth [are] to those devising good,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In all labour there is advantage, And a thing of the lips [is] only to want.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The crown of the wise is their wealth, The folly of fools [is] folly.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A true witness is delivering souls, And a deceitful one breatheth out lies.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In the fear of Jehovah [is] strong confidence, And to His sons there is a refuge.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The fear of Jehovah [is] a fountain of life, To turn aside from snares of death.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the multitude of a people [is] the honour of a king, And in lack of people the ruin of a prince.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Whoso is slow to anger [is] of great understanding, And whoso is short in temper is exalting folly.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> A healed heart [is] life to the flesh, And rottenness to the bones [is] envy.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> An oppressor of the poor reproacheth his Maker, And whoso is honouring Him Is favouring the needy.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> In his wickedness is the wicked driven away, And trustful in his death [is] the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> In the heart of the intelligent wisdom doth rest. And in the midst of fools it is known.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Righteousness exalteth a nation, And the goodliness of peoples [is] a sin-offering.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The favour of a king [is] to a wise servant, And an object of his wrath is one causing shame!</p>

</body>
</html>