<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Words of Lemuel a king, a declaration that his mother taught him:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `What, my son? and what, son of my womb? And what, son of my vows?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Give not to women thy strength, And thy ways to wiping away of kings.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Not for kings, O Lemuel, Not for kings, to drink wine, And for princes a desire of strong drink.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lest he drink, and forget the decree, And change the judgment of any of the sons of affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Give strong drink to the perishing, And wine to the bitter in soul,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He drinketh, and forgetteth his poverty, And his misery he remembereth not again.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Open thy mouth for the dumb, For the right of all sons of change.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Open thy mouth, judge righteously, Both the cause of the poor and needy!'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A woman of worth who doth find? Yea, far above rubies [is] her price.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heart of her husband hath trusted in her, And spoil he lacketh not.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> She hath done him good, and not evil, All days of her life.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> She hath sought wool and flax, And with delight she worketh [with] her hands.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> She hath been as ships of the merchant, From afar she bringeth in her bread.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yea, she riseth while yet night, And giveth food to her household, And a portion to her damsels.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> She hath considered a field, and taketh it, From the fruit of her hands she hath planted a vineyard.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> She hath girded with might her loins, And doth strengthen her arms.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> She hath perceived when her merchandise [is] good, Her lamp is not extinguished in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Her hands she hath sent forth on a spindle, And her hands have held a distaff.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Her hand she hath spread forth to the poor, Yea, her hands she sent forth to the needy.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She is not afraid of her household from snow, For all her household are clothed [with] scarlet.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Ornamental coverings she hath made for herself, Silk and purple [are] her clothing.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Known in the gates is her husband, In his sitting with elders of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Linen garments she hath made, and selleth, And a girdle she hath given to the merchant.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Strength and honour [are] her clothing, And she rejoiceth at a latter day.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Her mouth she hath opened in wisdom, And the law of kindness [is] on her tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> She [is] watching the ways of her household, And bread of sloth she eateth not.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Her sons have risen up, and pronounce her happy, Her husband, and he praiseth her,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> `Many [are] the daughters who have done worthily, Thou hast gone up above them all.'</p>

<p><a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The grace [is] false, and the beauty [is] vain, A woman fearing Jehovah, she may boast herself.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Give ye to her of the fruit of her hands, And her works do praise her in the gates!</p>

</body>
</html>