<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Doth not wisdom call? And understanding give forth her voice?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> At the head of high places by the way, Between the paths she hath stood,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> At the side of the gates, at the mouth of the city, The entrance of the openings, she crieth aloud,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `Unto you, O men, I call, And my voice [is] unto the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Understand, ye simple ones, prudence, And ye fools, understand the heart,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hearken, for noble things I speak, And the opening of my lips [is] uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For truth doth my mouth utter, And an abomination to my lips [is] wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In righteousness [are] all the sayings of my mouth, Nothing in them is froward and perverse.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All of them [are] plain to the intelligent, And upright to those finding knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Receive my instruction, and not silver, And knowledge rather than choice gold.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For better [is] wisdom than rubies, Yea, all delights are not comparable with it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I, wisdom, have dwelt with prudence, And a knowledge of devices I find out.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fear of Jehovah [is] to hate evil; Pride, and arrogance, and an evil way, And a froward mouth, I have hated.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Mine [is] counsel and substance, I [am] understanding, I have might.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By me kings reign, and princes decree righteousness,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> By me do chiefs rule, and nobles, All judges of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I love those loving me, And those seeking me earnestly do find me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Wealth and honour [are] with me, Lasting substance and righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Better [is] my fruit than gold, even fine gold, And mine increase than choice silver.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In a path of righteousness I cause to walk, In midst of paths of judgment,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To cause my lovers to inherit substance, Yea, their treasures I fill.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Jehovah possessed me--the beginning of His way, Before His works since then.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> From the age I was anointed, from the first, From former states of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> In there being no depths, I was brought forth, In there being no fountains heavy [with] waters,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Before mountains were sunk, Before heights, I was brought forth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> While He had not made the earth, and out-places, And the top of the dusts of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> In His preparing the heavens I [am] there, In His decreeing a circle on the face of the deep,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In His strengthening clouds above, In His making strong fountains of the deep,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> In His setting for the sea its limit, And the waters transgress not His command, In His decreeing the foundations of earth,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then I am near Him, a workman, And I am a delight--day by day. Rejoicing before Him at all times,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Rejoicing in the habitable part of His earth, And my delights [are] with the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And now, ye sons, hearken to me, Yea, happy are they who keep my ways.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Hear instruction, and be wise, and slight not.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> O the happiness of the man hearkening to me, To watch at my doors day by day, To watch at the door-posts of my entrance.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whoso is finding me, hath found life, And bringeth out good-will from Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And whoso is missing me, is wronging his soul, All hating me have loved death!</p>

</body>
</html>