<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Proverbs of Solomon. A wise son causeth a father to rejoice, And a foolish son [is] an affliction to his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Treasures of wickedness profit not, And righteousness delivereth from death.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah causeth not the soul of the righteous to hunger, And the desire of the wicked He thrusteth away.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Poor [is] he who is working--a slothful hand, And the hand of the diligent maketh rich.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whoso is gathering in summer [is] a wise son, Whoso is sleeping in harvest [is] a son causing shame.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessings [are] for the head of the righteous, And the mouth of the wicked cover doth violence.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The remembrance of the righteous [is] for a blessing, And the name of the wicked doth rot.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The wise in heart accepteth commands, And a talkative fool kicketh.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoso is walking in integrity walketh confidently, And whoso is perverting his ways is known.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Whoso is winking the eye giveth grief, And a talkative fool kicketh.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A fountain of life [is] the mouth of the righteous, And the mouth of the wicked cover doth violence.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hatred awaketh contentions, And over all transgressions love covereth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In the lips of the intelligent is wisdom found, And a rod [is] for the back of him who is lacking understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wise lay up knowledge, and the mouth of a fool [is] near ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The wealth of the rich [is] his strong city, The ruin of the poor [is] their poverty.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The wage of the righteous [is] for life, The increase of the wicked for sin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A traveller to life [is] he who is keeping instruction, And whoso is forsaking rebuke is erring.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoso is covering hatred with lying lips, And whoso is bringing out an evil report is a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the abundance of words transgression ceaseth not, And whoso is restraining his lips [is] wise.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The tongue of the righteous [is] chosen silver, The heart of the wicked--as a little thing.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The lips of the righteous delight many, And fools for lack of heart die.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The blessing of Jehovah--it maketh rich, And He addeth no grief with it.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> To execute inventions [is] as play to a fool, And wisdom to a man of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The feared thing of the wicked it meeteth him, And the desire of the righteous is given.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As the passing by of a hurricane, So the wicked is not, And the righteous is a foundation age-during.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> As vinegar to the teeth, And as smoke to the eyes, So [is] the slothful to those sending him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The fear of Jehovah addeth days, And the years of the wicked are shortened.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The hope of the righteous [is] joyful, And the expectation of the wicked perisheth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The way of Jehovah [is] strength to the perfect, And ruin to workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The righteous to the age is not moved, And the wicked inhabit not the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The mouth of the righteous uttereth wisdom, And the tongue of frowardness is cut out.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The lips of the righteous know a pleasing thing, And the mouth of the wicked perverseness!</p>

</body>
</html>