<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son! if thou hast been surety for thy friend, Hast stricken for a stranger thy hand,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hast been snared with sayings of thy mouth, Hast been captured with sayings of thy mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do this now, my son, and be delivered, For thou hast come into the hand of thy friend. Go, trample on thyself, and strengthen thy friend,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give not sleep to thine eyes, And slumber to thine eyelids,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Be delivered as a roe from the hand, And as a bird from the hand of a fowler.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Go unto the ant, O slothful one, See her ways and be wise;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Which hath not captain, overseer, and ruler,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> She doth prepare in summer her bread, She hath gathered in harvest her food.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Till when, O slothful one, dost thou lie? When dost thou arise from thy sleep?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A little sleep, a little slumber, A little clasping of the hands to rest,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thy poverty hath come as a traveller, And thy want as an armed man.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A man of worthlessness, a man of iniquity, Walking [with] perverseness of mouth,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Winking with his eyes, speaking with his feet, Directing with his fingers,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Frowardness [is] in his heart, devising evil at all times, Contentions he sendeth forth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore suddenly cometh his calamity, Instantly he is broken--and no healing.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These six hath Jehovah hated, Yea, seven [are] abominations to His soul.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Eyes high--tongues false--And hands shedding innocent blood--</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A heart devising thoughts of vanity--Feet hasting to run to evil--</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A false witness [who] doth breathe out lies--And one sending forth contentions between brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Keep, my son, the command of thy father, And leave not the law of thy mother.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bind them on thy heart continually, Tie them on thy neck.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In thy going up and down, it leadeth thee, In thy lying down, it watcheth over thee, And thou hast awaked--it talketh [with] thee.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For a lamp [is] the command, And the law a light, And a way of life [are] reproofs of instruction,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> To preserve thee from an evil woman, From the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Desire not her beauty in thy heart, And let her not take thee with her eyelids.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For a harlot consumeth unto a cake of bread, And an adulteress the precious soul hunteth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Doth a man take fire into his bosom, And are his garments not burnt?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Doth a man walk on the hot coals, And are his feet not scorched?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So [is] he who hath gone in unto the wife of his neighbour, None who doth touch her is innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They do not despise the thief, When he stealeth to fill his soul when he is hungry,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And being found he repayeth sevenfold, All the substance of his house he giveth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He who committeth adultery [with] a woman lacketh heart, He is destroying his soul who doth it.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> A stroke and shame he doth find, And his reproach is not wiped away,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For jealousy [is] the fury of a man, And he doth not spare in a day of vengeance.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He accepteth not the appearance of any atonement, Yea, he doth not consent, Though thou dost multiply bribes!</p>

</body>
</html>