<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A name is chosen rather than much wealth, Than silver and than gold--good grace.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Rich and poor have met together, The Maker of them all [is] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The prudent hath seen the evil, and is hidden, And the simple have passed on, and are punished.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The end of humility [is] the fear of Jehovah, Riches, and honour, and life.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thorns--snares [are] in the way of the perverse, Whoso is keeping his soul is far from them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Give instruction to a youth about his way, Even when he is old he turneth not from it.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The rich over the poor ruleth, And a servant [is] the borrower to the lender.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whoso is sowing perverseness reapeth sorrow, And the rod of his anger weareth out.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The good of eye--he is blessed, For he hath given of his bread to the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Cast out a scorner--and contention goeth out, And strife and shame cease.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whoso is loving cleanness of heart, Grace [are] his lips, a king [is] his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The eyes of Jehovah have kept knowledge, And He overthroweth the words of the treacherous.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The slothful hath said, `A lion [is] without, In the midst of the broad places I am slain.'</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A deep pit [is] the mouth of strange women, The abhorred of Jehovah falleth there.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Folly is bound up in the heart of a youth, The rod of chastisement putteth it far from him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He is oppressing the poor to multiply to him, He is giving to the rich--only to want.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Incline thine ear, and hear words of the wise, And thy heart set to my knowledge,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For they are pleasant when thou dost keep them in thy heart, They are prepared together for thy lips.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> That thy trust may be in Jehovah, I caused thee to know to-day, even thou.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Have I not written to thee three times With counsels and knowledge?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To cause thee to know the certainty of sayings of truth, To return sayings of truth to those sending thee.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Rob not the poor because he [is] poor, And bruise not the afflicted in the gate.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For Jehovah pleadeth their cause, And hath spoiled the soul of their spoilers.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shew not thyself friendly with an angry man, And with a man of fury go not in,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Lest thou learn his paths, And have received a snare to thy soul.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Be not thou among those striking hands, Among sureties [for] burdens.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If thou hast nothing to pay, Why doth he take thy bed from under thee?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Remove not a border of olden times, That thy fathers have made.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Hast thou seen a man speedy in his business? Before kings he doth station himself, He stations not himself before obscure men!</p>

</body>
</html>