<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, if thou dost accept my sayings, And my commands dost lay up with thee,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To cause thine ear to attend to wisdom, Thou inclinest thy heart to understanding,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, if for intelligence thou callest, For understanding givest forth thy voice,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If thou dost seek her as silver, And as hid treasures searchest for her,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then understandest thou fear of Jehovah, And knowledge of God thou findest.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For Jehovah giveth wisdom, From His mouth knowledge and understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Even to lay up for the upright substance, A shield for those walking uprightly.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> To keep the paths of judgment, And the way of His saints He preserveth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then understandest thou righteousness, And judgment, and uprightness--every good path.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For wisdom cometh into thy heart, And knowledge to thy soul is pleasant,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thoughtfulness doth watch over thee, Understanding doth keep thee,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To deliver thee from an evil way, From any speaking froward things,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who are forsaking paths of uprightness, To walk in ways of darkness,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who are rejoicing to do evil, They delight in frowardness of the wicked,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whose paths [are] crooked, Yea, they are perverted in their ways.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To deliver thee from the strange woman, From the stranger who hath made smooth her sayings,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Who is forsaking the guide of her youth, And the covenant of her God hath forgotten.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For her house hath inclined unto death, And unto Rephaim her paths.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> None going in unto her turn back, Nor do they reach the paths of life.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> That thou dost go in the way of the good, And the paths of the righteous dost keep.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the upright do inhabit the earth, And the perfect are left in it,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the wicked from the earth are cut off, And treacherous dealers plucked out of it!</p>

</body>
</html>