<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, So honour [is] not comely for a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As a bird by wandering, as a swallow by flying, So reviling without cause doth not come.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A whip is for a horse, a bridle for an ass, And a rod for the back of fools.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Answer not a fool according to his folly, Lest thou be like to him--even thou.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Answer a fool according to his folly, Lest he be wise in his own eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is cutting off feet, he is drinking injury, Who is sending things by the hand of a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Weak have been the two legs of the lame, And a parable in the mouth of fools.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As one who is binding a stone in a sling, So [is] he who is giving honour to a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A thorn hath gone up into the hand of a drunkard, And a parable in the mouth of fools.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Great [is] the Former of all, And He is rewarding a fool, And is rewarding transgressors.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As a dog hath returned to its vomit, A fool is repeating his folly.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou hast seen a man wise in his own eyes, More hope of a fool than of him!</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The slothful hath said, `A lion [is] in the way, A lion [is] in the broad places.'</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The door turneth round on its hinge, And the slothful on his bed.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The slothful hath hid his hand in a dish, He is weary of bringing it back to his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Wiser [is] the slothful in his own eyes, Than seven [men] returning a reason.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Laying hold on the ears of a dog, [Is] a passer-by making himself wrath for strife not his own.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As [one] pretending to be feeble, Who is casting sparks, arrows, and death,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So hath a man deceived his neighbour, And hath said, `Am not I playing?'</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Without wood is fire going out, And without a tale-bearer, contention ceaseth,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Coal to burning coals, and wood to fire, And a man of contentions to kindle strife.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The words of a tale-bearer [are] as self-inflicted wounds, And they have gone down [to] the inner parts of the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Silver of dross spread over potsherd, [Are] burning lips and an evil heart.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> By his lips doth a hater dissemble, And in his heart he placeth deceit,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When his voice is gracious trust not in him, For seven abominations [are] in his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Hatred is covered by deceit, Revealed is its wickedness in an assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoso is digging a pit falleth into it, And the roller of a stone, to him it turneth.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A lying tongue hateth its bruised ones, And a flattering mouth worketh an overthrow!</p>

</body>
</html>