<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For knowing wisdom and instruction, For understanding sayings of intelligence,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For receiving the instruction of wisdom, Righteousness, judgment, and uprightness,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For giving to simple ones--prudence, To a youth--knowledge and discretion.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> (The wise doth hear and increaseth learning, And the intelligent doth obtain counsels.)</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For understanding a proverb and its sweetness, Words of the wise and their acute sayings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Fear of Jehovah [is] a beginning of knowledge, Wisdom and instruction fools have despised!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hear, my son, the instruction of thy father, And leave not the law of thy mother,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For a graceful wreath [are] they to thy head, And chains to thy neck.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My son, if sinners entice thee be not willing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they say, `Come with us, we lay wait for blood, We watch secretly for the innocent without cause,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> We swallow them as Sheol--alive, And whole--as those going down [to] the pit,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Every precious substance we find, We fill our houses [with] spoil,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thy lot thou dost cast among us, One purse is--to all of us.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My son! go not in the way with them, Withhold thy foot from their path,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For their feet to evil do run, And they haste to shed blood.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Surely in vain is the net spread out before the eyes of any bird.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they for their own blood lay wait, They watch secretly for their own lives.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So [are] the paths of every gainer of dishonest gain, The life of its owners it taketh.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wisdom in an out-place crieth aloud, In broad places she giveth forth her voice,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> At the head of the multitudes she calleth, In the openings of the gates, In the city her sayings she saith:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> `Till when, ye simple, do ye love simplicity? And have scorners their scorning desired? And do fools hate knowledge?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Turn back at my reproof, lo, I pour forth to you my spirit, I make known my words with you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Because I have called, and ye refuse, I stretched out my hand, and none is attending,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And ye slight all my counsel, And my reproof ye have not desired.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I also in your calamity do laugh, I deride when your fear cometh,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> When your fear cometh as destruction, And your calamity as a hurricane doth come, When on you come adversity and distress.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then they call me, and I do not answer, They seek me earnestly, and find me not.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Because that they have hated knowledge, And the fear of Jehovah have not chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They have not consented to my counsel, They have despised all my reproof,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they eat of the fruit of their way, And from their own counsels they are filled.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the turning of the simple slayeth them, And the security of the foolish destroyeth them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And whoso is hearkening to me dwelleth confidently, And [is] quiet from fear of evil!'</p>

</body>
</html>