<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The wicked have fled and there is no pursuer. And the righteous as a young lion is confident.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> By the transgression of a land many [are] its heads. And by an intelligent man, Who knoweth right--it is prolonged.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A man--poor and oppressing the weak, [Is] a sweeping rain, and there is no bread.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Those forsaking the law praise the wicked, Those keeping the law plead against them.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Evil men understand not judgment, And those seeking Jehovah understand all.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Better [is] the poor walking in his integrity, Than the perverse of ways who is rich.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whoso is keeping the law is an intelligent son, And a friend of gluttons, Doth cause his father to blush.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whoso is multiplying his wealth by biting and usury, For one favouring the poor doth gather it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoso is turning his ear from hearing the law, Even his prayer [is] an abomination.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Whoso is causing the upright to err in an evil way, Into his own pit he doth fall, And the perfect do inherit good.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A rich man is wise in his own eyes, And the intelligent poor searcheth him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In the exulting of the righteous the glory [is] abundant, And in the rising of the wicked man is apprehensive.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoso is covering his transgressions prospereth not, And he who is confessing and forsaking hath mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> O the happiness of a man fearing continually, And whoso is hardening his heart falleth into evil.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A growling lion, and a ranging bear, [Is] the wicked ruler over a poor people.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A leader lacking understanding multiplieth oppressions, Whoso is hating dishonest gain prolongeth days.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A man oppressed with the blood of a soul, Unto the pit fleeth, none taketh hold on him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoso is walking uprightly is saved, And the perverted of ways falleth at once.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whoso is tilling his ground is satisfied [with] bread, And whoso is pursuing vanity, Is filled [with] poverty.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A stedfast man hath multiplied blessings, And whoso is hasting to be rich is not acquitted.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To discern faces is not good, And for a piece of bread doth a man transgress.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Troubled for wealth [is] the man [with] an evil eye, And he knoweth not that want doth meet him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoso is reproving a man afterwards findeth grace, More than a flatterer with the tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoso is robbing his father, or his mother, And is saying, `It is not transgression,' A companion he is to a destroyer.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Whoso is proud in soul stirreth up contention, And whoso is trusting on Jehovah is made fat.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Whoso is trusting in his heart is a fool, And whoso is walking in wisdom is delivered.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoso is giving to the poor hath no lack, And whoso is hiding his eyes multiplied curses.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the rising of the wicked a man is hidden, And in their destruction the righteous multiply!</p>

</body>
</html>