<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A soft answer turneth back fury, And a grievous word raiseth up anger.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The tongue of the wise maketh knowledge good, And the mouth of fools uttereth folly.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In every place are the eyes of Jehovah, Watching the evil and the good.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A healed tongue [is] a tree of life, And perverseness in it--a breach in the spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A fool despiseth the instruction of his father, And whoso is regarding reproof is prudent.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> [In] the house of the righteous [is] abundant strength, And in the increase of the wicked--trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The lips of the wise scatter knowledge, And the heart of fools [is] not right.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sacrifice of the wicked [is] an abomination to Jehovah, And the prayer of the upright [is] His delight.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> An abomination to Jehovah [is] the way of the wicked, And whoso is pursuing righteousness He loveth.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Chastisement [is] grievous to him who is forsaking the path, Whoso is hating reproof dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sheol and destruction [are] before Jehovah, Surely also the hearts of the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A scorner loveth not his reprover, Unto the wise he goeth not.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A joyful heart maketh glad the face, And by grief of heart is the spirit smitten.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The heart of the intelligent seeketh knowledge, And the mouth of fools enjoyeth folly.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All the days of the afflicted [are] evil, And gladness of heart [is] a perpetual banquet.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Better [is] a little with the fear of Jehovah, Than much treasure, and tumult with it.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Better [is] an allowance of green herbs and love there, Than a fatted ox, and hatred with it.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A man of fury stirreth up contention, And the slow to anger appeaseth strife.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the slothful [is] as a hedge of briers, And the path of the upright is raised up.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A wise son rejoiceth a father. And a foolish man is despising his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Folly is joy to one lacking heart, And a man of intelligence directeth [his] going.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Without counsel [is] the making void of purposes, And in a multitude of counsellors it is established.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Joy [is] to a man in the answer of his mouth, And a word in its season--how good!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A path of life [is] on high for the wise, To turn aside from Sheol beneath.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The house of the proud Jehovah pulleth down, And He setteth up the border of the widow.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> An abomination to Jehovah [are] thoughts of wickedness, And pure [are] sayings of pleasantness.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> A dishonest gainer is troubling his house, And whoso is hating gifts liveth.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The heart of the righteous meditateth to answer, And the mouth of the wicked uttereth evil things.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Far [is] Jehovah from the wicked, And the prayer of the righteous He heareth.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart, A good report maketh fat the bone.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> An ear that is hearing the reproof of life Doth lodge among the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Whoso is refusing instruction is despising his soul, And whoso is hearing reproof Is getting understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The fear of Jehovah [is] the instruction of wisdom, And before honour [is] humility!</p>

</body>
</html>