<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Rivulets of waters [is] the heart of a king in the hand of Jehovah, Wherever He pleaseth He inclineth it.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every way of a man [is] right in his own eyes, And Jehovah is pondering hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To do righteousness and judgment, Is chosen of Jehovah rather than sacrifice.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Loftiness of eyes, and breadth of heart, Tillage of the wicked [is] sin.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The purposes of the diligent [are] only to advantage, And of every hasty one, only to want.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The making of treasures by a lying tongue, [Is] a vanity driven away of those seeking death.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The spoil of the wicked catcheth them, Because they have refused to do judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Froward [is] the way of a man who is vile, And the pure--upright [is] his work.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Better to sit on a corner of the roof, Than [with] a woman of contentions and a house of company.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The soul of the wicked hath desired evil, Not gracious in his eyes is his neighbour.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When the scorner is punished, the simple becometh wise, And in giving understanding to the wise He receiveth knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The Righteous One is acting wisely Towards the house of the wicked, He is overthrowing the wicked for wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoso is shutting his ear from the cry of the poor, He also doth cry, and is not answered.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A gift in secret pacifieth anger, And a bribe in the bosom strong fury.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To do justice [is] joy to the righteous, But ruin to workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A man who is wandering from the way of understanding, In an assembly of Rephaim resteth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whoso [is] loving mirth [is] a poor man, Whoso is loving wine and oil maketh no wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The wicked [is] an atonement for the righteous, And for the upright the treacherous dealer.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Better to dwell in a wilderness land, Than [with] a woman of contentions and anger.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A treasure to be desired, and oil, [Is] in the habitation of the wise, And a foolish man swalloweth it up.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoso is pursuing righteousness and kindness, Findeth life, righteousness, and honour.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A city of the mighty hath the wise gone up, And bringeth down the strength of its confidence.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoso is keeping his mouth and his tongue, Is keeping from adversities his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Proud, haughty, scorner [is] his name, Who is working in the wrath of pride.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The desire of the slothful slayeth him, For his hands have refused to work.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All the day desiring he hath desired, And the righteous giveth and withholdeth not.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The sacrifice of the wicked [is] abomination, Much more when in wickedness he bringeth it.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A false witness doth perish, And an attentive man for ever speaketh.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> A wicked man hath hardened by his face, And the upright--he prepareth his way.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> There is no wisdom, nor understanding, Nor counsel, over-against Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> A horse is prepared for a day of battle, And the deliverance [is] of Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>