<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wine [is] a scorner--strong drink [is] noisy, And any going astray in it is not wise.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The fear of a king [is] a growl as of a young lion, He who is causing him to be wroth is wronging his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> An honour to a man is cessation from strife, And every fool intermeddleth.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because of winter the slothful plougheth not, He asketh in harvest, and there is nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Counsel in the heart of a man [is] deep water, And a man of understanding draweth it up.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A multitude of men proclaim each his kindness, And a man of stedfastness who doth find?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The righteous is walking habitually in his integrity, O the happiness of his sons after him!</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A king sitting on a throne of judgment, Is scattering with his eyes all evil,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who saith, `I have purified my heart, I have been cleansed from my sin?'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A stone and a stone, an ephah and an ephah, Even both of them [are] an abomination to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Even by his actions a youth maketh himself known, Whether his work be pure or upright.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A hearing ear, and a seeing eye, Jehovah hath made even both of them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Love not sleep, lest thou become poor, Open thine eyes--be satisfied [with] bread.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `Bad, bad,' saith the buyer, And going his way then he boasteth himself.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Substance, gold, and a multitude of rubies, Yea, a precious vessel, [are] lips of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Take his garment when a stranger hath been surety, And for strangers pledge it.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sweet to a man [is] the bread of falsehood, And afterwards is his mouth filled [with] gravel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Purposes by counsel thou dost establish, And with plans make thou war.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A revealer of secret counsels is the busybody, And for a deceiver [with] his lips make not thyself surety.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whoso is vilifying his father and his mother, Extinguished is his lamp in blackness of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> An inheritance gotten wrongly at first, Even its latter end is not blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Do not say, `I recompense evil,' Wait for Jehovah, and He delivereth thee.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> An abomination to Jehovah [are] a stone and a stone, And balances of deceit [are] not good.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> From Jehovah [are] the steps of a man, And man--how understandeth he his way?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A snare to a man [is] he hath swallowed a holy thing, And after vows to make inquiry.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> A wise king is scattering the wicked, And turneth back on them the wheel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The breath of man [is] a lamp of Jehovah, Searching all the inner parts of the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Kindness and truth keep a king, And he hath supported by kindness his throne.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The beauty of young men is their strength, And the honour of old men is grey hairs.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The bandages of a wound thou removest with the evil, Also the plagues of the inner parts of the heart!</p>

</body>
</html>