<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Better [is] a name than good perfume, And the day of death than the day of birth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Better to go unto a house of mourning, Than to go unto a house of banqueting, For that is the end of all men, And the living layeth [it] unto his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Better [is] sorrow than laughter, For by the sadness of the face the heart becometh better.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The heart of the wise [is] in a house of mourning, And the heart of fools in a house of mirth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Better to hear a rebuke of a wise man, Than [for] a man to hear a song of fools,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For as the noise of thorns under the pot, So [is] the laughter of a fool, even this [is] vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Surely oppression maketh the wise mad, And a gift destroyeth the heart.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Better [is] the latter end of a thing than its beginning, Better [is] the patient of spirit, than the haughty of spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry, For anger in the bosom of fools resteth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say not thou, `What was it, That the former days were better than these?' For thou hast not asked wisely of this.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wisdom [is] good with an inheritance, And an advantage [it is] to those beholding the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For wisdom [is] a defense, money [is] a defence, And the advantage of the knowledge of wisdom [is], She reviveth her possessors.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> See the work of God, For who is able to make straight that which He made crooked?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In a day of prosperity be in gladness, And in a day of evil consider. Also this over-against that hath God made, To the intent that man doth not find anything after him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The whole I have considered in the days of my vanity. There is a righteous one perishing in his righteousness, and there is a wrong-doer prolonging [himself] in his wrong.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Be not over-righteous, nor show thyself too wise, why art thou desolate?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Do not much wrong, neither be thou a fool, why dost thou die within thy time?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> [It is] good that thou dost lay hold on this, and also, from that withdrawest not thy hand, for whoso is fearing God goeth out with them all.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The wisdom giveth strength to a wise man, more than wealth the rulers who have been in a city.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Because there is not a righteous man on earth that doth good and sinneth not.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Also to all the words that they speak give not thy heart, that thou hear not thy servant reviling thee.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For many times also hath thy heart known that thou thyself also hast reviled others.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> All this I have tried by wisdom; I have said, `I am wise,' and it [is] far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Far off [is] that which hath been, and deep, deep, who doth find it?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have turned round, also my heart, to know and to search, and to seek out wisdom, and reason, and to know the wrong of folly, and of foolishness the madness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I am finding more bitter than death, the woman whose heart [is] nets and snares, her hands [are] bands; the good before God escapeth from her, but the sinner is captured by her.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> See, this I have found, said the Preacher, one to one, to find out the reason</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> (that still my soul had sought, and I had not found), One man, a teacher, I have found, and a woman among all these I have not found.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> See, this alone I have found, that God made man upright, and they--they have sought out many devices.</p>

</body>
</html>