<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I said in my heart, `Pray, come, I try thee with mirth, and look thou on gladness;' and lo, even it [is] vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Of laughter I said, `Foolish!' and of mirth, `What [is] this it is doing?'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have sought in my heart to draw out with wine my appetite, (and my heart leading in wisdom), and to take hold on folly till that I see where [is] this--the good to the sons of man of that which they do under the heavens, the number of the days of their lives.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I made great my works, I builded for me houses, I planted for me vineyards.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I made for me gardens and paradises, and I planted in them trees of every fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I made for me pools of water, to water from them a forest shooting forth trees.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I got men-servants, and maid-servants, and sons of the house were to me; also, I had much substance--herd and flock--above all who had been before me in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I gathered for me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces. I prepared for me men-singers and women-singers, and the luxuries of the sons of man-- a wife and wives.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I became great, and increased above every one who had been before me in Jerusalem; also, my wisdom stood with me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And all that mine eyes asked I kept not back from them; I withheld not my heart from any joy, for my heart rejoiced because of all my labour, and this hath been my portion, from all my labour,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and I have looked on all my works that my hands have done, and on the labour that I have laboured to do, and lo, the whole [is] vanity and vexation of spirit, and there is no advantage under the sun!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I turned to see wisdom, and madness, and folly, but what [is] the man who cometh after the king? that which [is] already--they have done it!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I saw that there is an advantage to wisdom above folly, like the advantage of the light above the darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wise! --his eyes [are] in his head, and the fool in darkness is walking, and I also knew that one event happeneth with them all;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and I said in my heart, `As it happeneth with the fool, it happeneth also with me, and why am I then more wise?' And I spake in my heart, that also this [is] vanity:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> That there is no remembrance to the wise--with the fool--to the age, for that which [is] already, [in] the days that are coming is all forgotten, and how dieth the wise? with the fool!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I have hated life, for sad to me [is] the work that hath been done under the sun, for the whole [is] vanity and vexation of spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I have hated all my labour that I labour at under the sun, because I leave it to a man who is after me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And who knoweth whether he is wise or foolish? yet he doth rule over all my labour that I have laboured at, and that I have done wisely under the sun! this also [is] vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And I turned round to cause my heart to despair concerning all the labour that I laboured at under the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For there is a man whose labour [is] in wisdom, and in knowledge, and in equity, and to a man who hath not laboured therein he giveth it--his portion! Even this [is] vanity and a great evil.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For what hath been to a man by all his labour, and by the thought of his heart that he laboured at under the sun?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For all his days are sorrows, and his travail sadness; even at night his heart hath not lain down; this also [is] vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> There is nothing good in a man who eateth, and hath drunk, and hath shewn his soul good in his labour. This also I have seen that it [is] from the hand of God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For who eateth and who hasteth out more than I?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For to a man who [is] good before Him, He hath given wisdom, and knowledge, and joy; and to a sinner He hath given travail, to gather and to heap up, to give to the good before God. Even this [is] vanity and vexation of spirit.</p>

</body>
</html>