<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Words of a preacher, son of David, king in Jerusalem:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Vanity of vanities, said the Preacher, Vanity of vanities: the whole [is] vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> What advantage [is] to man by all his labour that he laboureth at under the sun?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A generation is going, and a generation is coming, and the earth to the age is standing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Also, the sun hath risen, and the sun hath gone in, and unto its place panting it is rising there.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Going unto the south, and turning round unto the north, turning round, turning round, the wind is going, and by its circuits the wind hath returned.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the streams are going unto the sea, and the sea is not full; unto a place whither the streams are going, thither they are turning back to go.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All these things are wearying; a man is not able to speak, the eye is not satisfied by seeing, nor filled is the ear from hearing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What [is] that which hath been? it [is] that which is, and what [is] that which hath been done? it [is] that which is done, and there is not an entirely new thing under the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> There is a thing of which [one] saith: `See this, it [is] new!' already it hath been in the ages that were before us!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is not a remembrance of former [generations]; and also of the latter that are, there is no remembrance of them with those that are at the last.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I, a preacher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I have given my heart to seek and to search out by wisdom concerning all that hath been done under the heavens. It [is] a sad travail God hath given to the sons of man to be humbled by it.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have seen all the works that have been done under the sun, and lo, the whole [is] vanity and vexation of spirit!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A crooked thing [one] is not able to make straight, and a lacking thing is not able to be numbered.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I--I spake with my heart, saying, `I, lo, I have magnified and added wisdom above every one who hath been before me at Jerusalem, and my heart hath seen abundantly wisdom and knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I give my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I have known that even this [is] vexation of spirit;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for, in abundance of wisdom [is] abundance of sadness, and he who addeth knowledge addeth pain.'</p>

</body>
</html>