<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To everything--a season, and a time to every delight under the heavens:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A time to bring forth, And a time to die. A time to plant, And a time to eradicate the planted.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A time to slay, And a time to heal, A time to break down, And a time to build up.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A time to weep, And a time to laugh. A time to mourn, And a time to skip.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A time to cast away stones, And a time to heap up stones. A time to embrace, And a time to be far from embracing.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A time to seek, And a time to destroy. A time to keep, And a time to cast away.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A time to rend, And a time to sew. A time to be silent, And a time to speak.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A time to love, And a time to hate. A time of war, And a time of peace.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What advantage hath the doer in that which he is labouring at?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have seen the travail that God hath given to the sons of man to be humbled by it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The whole He hath made beautiful in its season; also, that knowledge He hath put in their heart without which man findeth not out the work that God hath done from the beginning even unto the end.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have known that there is no good for them except to rejoice and to do good during their life,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> yea, even every man who eateth and hath drunk and seen good by all his labour, it [is] a gift of God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have known that all that God doth is to the age, to it nothing is to be added, and from it nothing is to be withdrawn; and God hath wrought that they do fear before Him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What is that which hath been? already it is, and that which [is] to be hath already been, and God requireth that which is pursued.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And again, I have seen under the sun the place of judgment--there [is] the wicked; and the place of righteousness--there [is] the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I said in my heart, `The righteous and the wicked doth God judge, for a time [is] to every matter and for every work there.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I said in my heart concerning the matter of the sons of man that God might cleanse them, so as to see that they themselves [are] beasts.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For an event [is to] the sons of man, and an event [is to] the beasts, even one event [is] to them; as the death of this, so [is] the death of that; and one spirit [is] to all, and the advantage of man above the beast is nothing, for the whole [is] vanity.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The whole are going unto one place, the whole have been from the dust, and the whole are turning back unto the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Who knoweth the spirit of the sons of man that is going up on high, and the spirit of the beast that is going down below to the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I have seen that there is nothing better than that man rejoice in his works, for it [is] his portion; for who doth bring him in to look on that which is after him?</p>

</body>
</html>