<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Dead flies cause a perfumer's perfume To send forth a stink; The precious by reason of wisdom--By reason of honour--a little folly!</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The heart of the wise [is] at his right hand, And the heart of a fool at his left.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And also, when he that is a fool Is walking in the way, his heart is lacking, And he hath said to every one, `He [is] a fool.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If the spirit of the ruler go up against thee, Thy place leave not, For yielding quieteth great sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> There is an evil I have seen under the sun, As an error that goeth out from the ruler,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He hath set the fool in many high places, And the rich in a low place do sit.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have seen servants on horses, And princes walking as servants on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Whoso is digging a pit falleth into it, And whoso is breaking a hedge, a serpent biteth him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoso is removing stones is grieved by them, Whoso is cleaving trees endangered by them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If the iron hath been blunt, And he the face hath not sharpened, Then doth he increase strength, And wisdom [is] advantageous to make right.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If the serpent biteth without enchantment, Then there is no advantage to a master of the tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Words of the mouth of the wise [are] gracious, And the lips of a fool swallow him up.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The beginning of the words of his mouth [is] folly, And the latter end of his mouth [Is] mischievous madness.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the fool multiplieth words: `Man knoweth not that which is, And that which is after him, who doth declare to him?'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The labour of the foolish wearieth him, In that he hath not known to go unto the city.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Woe to thee, O land, when thy king [is] a youth, And thy princes do eat in the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Happy art thou, O land, When thy king [is] a son of freemen, And thy princes do eat in due season, For might, and not for drunkenness.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By slothfulness is the wall brought low, And by idleness of the hands doth the house drop.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For mirth they are making a feast, And wine maketh life joyful, And the silver answereth with all.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Even in thy mind a king revile not, And in the inner parts of thy bed-chamber Revile not the rich: For a fowl of the heavens causeth the voice to go, And a possessor of wings declareth the word.</p>

</body>
</html>