<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I have turned, and I see all the oppressions that are done under the sun, and lo, the tear of the oppressed, and they have no comforter; and at the hand of their oppressors [is] power, and they have no comforter.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I am praising the dead who have already died above the living who are yet alive.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And better than both of them [is] he who hath not yet been, in that he hath not seen the evil work that hath been done under the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I have seen all the labour, and all the benefit of the work, because for it a man is the envy of his neighbour. Even this [is] vanity and vexation of spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The fool is clasping his hands, and eating his own flesh:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> `Better [is] a handful [with] quietness, than two handfuls [with] labour and vexation of spirit.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I have turned, and I see a vain thing under the sun:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There is one, and there is not a second; even son or brother he hath not, and there is no end to all his labour! His eye also is not satisfied with riches, and [he saith not], `For whom am I labouring and bereaving my soul of good?' Thisalso is vanity, it is a sad travail.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The two [are] better than the one, in that they have a good reward by their labour.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For if they fall, the one raiseth up his companion, but woe to the one who falleth and there is not a second to raise him up!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Also, if two lie down, then they have heat, but how hath one heat?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And if the one strengthen himself, the two stand against him; and the threefold cord is not hastily broken.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Better is a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king, who hath not known to be warned any more.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For from a house of prisoners he hath come out to reign, for even in his own kingdom he hath been poor.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have seen all the living, who are walking under the sun, with the second youth who doth stand in his place;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> there is no end to all the people, to all who were before them; also, the latter rejoice not in him. Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit.</p>

</body>
</html>