<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I have come in to my garden, my sister-spouse, I have plucked my myrrh with my spice, I have eaten my comb with my honey, I have drunk my wine with my milk. Eat, O friends, drink, Yea, drink abundantly, O beloved ones!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I am sleeping, but my heart waketh: The sound of my beloved knocking! `Open to me, my sister, my friend, My dove, my perfect one, For my head is filled [with] dew, My locks [with] drops of the night.'</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have put off my coat, how do I put it on? I have washed my feet, how do I defile them?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My beloved sent his hand from the net-work, And my bowels were moved for him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I rose to open to my beloved, And my hands dropped myrrh, Yea, my fingers flowing myrrh, On the handles of the lock.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I opened to my beloved, But my beloved withdrew--he passed on, My soul went forth when he spake, I sought him, and found him not. I called him, and he answered me not.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The watchmen who go round about the city, Found me, smote me, wounded me, Keepers of the walls lifted up my veil from off me.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have adjured you, daughters of Jerusalem, If ye find my beloved--What do ye tell him? that I [am] sick with love!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What [is] thy beloved above [any] beloved, O fair among women? What [is] thy beloved above [any] beloved, That thus thou hast adjured us?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My beloved [is] clear and ruddy, Conspicuous above a myriad!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His head [is] pure gold--fine gold, His locks flowing, dark as a raven,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His eyes as doves by streams of water, Washing in milk, sitting in fulness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His cheeks as a bed of the spice, towers of perfumes, His lips [are] lilies, dropping flowing myrrh,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His hands rings of gold, set with beryl, His heart bright ivory, covered with sapphires,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> His limbs pillars of marble, Founded on sockets of fine gold, His appearance as Lebanon, choice as the cedars.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His mouth is sweetness--and all of him desirable, This [is] my beloved, and this my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem!</p>

</body>
</html>