<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Song of Songs, that [is] Solomon's.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let him kiss me with kisses of his mouth, For better [are] thy loves than wine.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For fragrance [are] thy perfumes good. Perfume emptied out--thy name, Therefore have virgins loved thee!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Draw me: after thee we run, The king hath brought me into his inner chambers, We do joy and rejoice in thee, We mention thy loves more than wine, Uprightly they have loved thee!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Dark [am] I, and comely, daughters of Jerusalem, As tents of Kedar, as curtains of Solomon.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Fear me not, because I [am] very dark, Because the sun hath scorched me, The sons of my mother were angry with me, They made me keeper of the vineyards, My vineyard-- my own--I have not kept.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Declare to me, thou whom my soul hath loved, Where thou delightest, Where thou liest down at noon, For why am I as one veiled, By the ranks of thy companions?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If thou knowest not, O fair among women, Get thee forth by the traces of the flock, And feed thy kids by the shepherds' dwellings!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> To my joyous one in chariots of Pharaoh, I have compared thee, my friend,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Comely have been thy cheeks with garlands, Thy neck with chains.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Garlands of gold we do make for thee, With studs of silver!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While the king [is] in his circle, My spikenard hath given its fragrance.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A bundle of myrrh [is] my beloved to me, Between my breasts it lodgeth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A cluster of cypress [is] my beloved to me, In the vineyards of En-Gedi!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lo, thou [art] fair, my friend, Lo, thou [art] fair, thine eyes [are] doves!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lo, thou [art] fair, my love, yea, pleasant, Yea, our couch [is] green,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The beams of our houses [are] cedars, Our rafters [are] firs, I [am] a rose of Sharon, a lily of the valleys!</p>

</body>
</html>