<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whither hath thy beloved gone, O fair among women? Whither hath thy beloved turned, And we seek him with thee?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My beloved went down to his garden, To the beds of the spice, To delight himself in the gardens, and to gather lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I [am] my beloved's, and my beloved [is] mine, Who is delighting himself among the lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Fair [art] thou, my friend, as Tirzah, Comely as Jerusalem, Awe-inspiring as bannered hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Turn round thine eyes from before me, Because they have made me proud. Thy hair [is] as a row of the goats, That have shone from Gilead,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy teeth as a row of the lambs, That have come up from the washing, Because all of them are forming twins, And a bereaved one is not among them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As the work of the pomegranate [is] thy temple behind thy veil.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Sixty are queens, and eighty concubines, And virgins without number.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> One is my dove, my perfect one, One she [is] of her mother, The choice one she [is] of her that bare her, Daughters saw, and pronounce her happy, Queens and concubines, and they praise her.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `Who [is] this that is looking forth as morning, Fair as the moon--clear as the sun, Awe-inspiring as bannered hosts?'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Unto a garden of nuts I went down, To look on the buds of the valley, To see whither the vine had flourished, The pomegranates had blossomed--</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I knew not my soul, It made me--chariots of my people Nadib.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Return, return, O Shulammith! Return, return, and we look upon thee. What do ye see in Shulammith?</p>

</body>
</html>