<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lo, thou [art] fair, my friend, lo, thou [art] fair, Thine eyes [are] doves behind thy veil, Thy hair as a row of the goats That have shone from mount Gilead,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thy teeth as a row of the shorn ones That have come up from the washing, For all of them are forming twins, And a bereaved one is not among them.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As a thread of scarlet [are] thy lips, And thy speech [is] comely, As the work of the pomegranate [is] thy temple behind thy veil,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As the tower of David [is] thy neck, built for an armoury, The chief of the shields are hung on it, All shields of the mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thy two breasts [are] as two fawns, Twins of a roe, that are feeding among lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Till the day doth break forth, And the shadows have fled away, I will get me unto the mountain of myrrh, And unto the hill of frankincense.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou [art] all fair, my friend, And a blemish there is not in thee. Come from Lebanon, O spouse,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Come from Lebanon, come thou in. Look from the top of Amana, From the top of Shenir and Hermon, From the habitations of lions, From the mountains of leopards.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast emboldened me, my sister-spouse, Emboldened me with one of thine eyes, With one chain of thy neck.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> How wonderful have been thy loves, my sister-spouse, How much better have been thy loves than wine, And the fragrance of thy perfumes than all spices.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thy lips drop honey, O spouse, Honey and milk [are] under thy tongue, And the fragrance of thy garments [Is] as the fragrance of Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A garden shut up [is] my sister-spouse, A spring shut up--a fountain sealed.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy shoots a paradise of pomegranates, With precious fruits,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Cypresses with nard--nard and saffron, Cane and cinnamon, With all trees of frankincense, Myrrh and aloes, with all chief spices.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A fount of gardens, a well of living waters, And flowings from Lebanon!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Awake, O north wind, and come, O south, Cause my garden to breathe forth, its spices let flow, Let my beloved come to his garden, And eat its pleasant fruits!</p>

</body>
</html>