<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who doth make thee as a brother to me, Sucking the breasts of my mother? I find thee without, I kiss thee, Yea, they do not despise me,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I lead thee, I bring thee in unto my mother's house, She doth teach me, I cause thee to drink of the perfumed wine, Of the juice of my pomegranate,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His left hand [is] under my head, And his right doth embrace me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have adjured you, daughters of Jerusalem, How ye stir up, And how ye wake the love till she please!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who [is] this coming from the wilderness, Hasting herself for her beloved? Under the citron-tree I have waked thee, There did thy mother pledge thee, There she gave a pledge [that] bare thee.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Set me as a seal on thy heart, as a seal on thine arm, For strong as death is love, Sharp as Sheol is jealousy, Its burnings [are] burnings of fire, a flame of Jah!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Many waters are not able to quench the love, And floods do not wash it away. If one give all the wealth of his house for love, Treading down--they tread upon it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> We have a little sister, and breasts she hath not, What do we do for our sister, In the day that it is told of her?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If she is a wall, we build by her a palace of silver. And if she is a door, We fashion by her board-work of cedar.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I [am] a wall, and my breasts as towers, Then I have been in his eyes as one finding peace.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Solomon hath a vineyard in Baal-Hamon, He hath given the vineyard to keepers, Each bringeth for its fruit a thousand silverlings;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My vineyard--my own--is before me, The thousand [is] for thee, O Solomon. And the two hundred for those keeping its fruit. O dweller in gardens!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The companions are attending to thy voice, Cause me to hear. Flee, my beloved, and be like to a roe,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Or to a young one of the harts on mountains of spices!</p>

</body>
</html>