<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> As the chorus of `Mahanaim.' How beautiful were thy feet with sandals, O daughter of Nadib. The turnings of thy sides [are] as ornaments, Work of the hands of an artificer.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thy waist [is] a basin of roundness, It lacketh not the mixture, Thy body a heap of wheat, fenced with lilies,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thy two breasts as two young ones, twins of a roe,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy neck as a tower of the ivory, Thine eyes pools in Heshbon, near the gate of Bath-Rabbim, Thy face as a tower of Lebanon looking to Damascus,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thy head upon thee as Carmel, And the locks of thy head as purple, The king is bound with the flowings!</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> How fair and how pleasant hast thou been, O love, in delights.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> This thy stature hath been like to a palm, And thy breasts to clusters.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I said, `Let me go up on the palm, Let me lay hold on its boughs, Yea, let thy breasts be, I pray thee, as clusters of the vine, And the fragrance of thy face as citrons,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thy palate as the good wine--'Flowing to my beloved in uprightness, Strengthening the lips of the aged!</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I [am] my beloved's, and on me [is] his desire.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Come, my beloved, we go forth to the field,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> We lodge in the villages, we go early to the vineyards, We see if the vine hath flourished, The sweet smelling-flower hath opened. The pomegranates have blossomed, There do I give to thee my loves;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The mandrakes have given fragrance, And at our openings all pleasant things, New, yea, old, my beloved, I laid up for thee!</p>

</body>
</html>