<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> As a lily among the thorns,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> So [is] my friend among the daughters!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As a citron among trees of the forest, So [is] my beloved among the sons, In his shade I delighted, and sat down, And his fruit [is] sweet to my palate.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He hath brought me in unto a house of wine, And his banner over me [is] love,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sustain me with grape-cakes, Support me with citrons, for I [am] sick with love.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His left hand [is] under my head, And his right doth embrace me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have adjured you, daughters of Jerusalem, By the roes or by the hinds of the field, Stir not up nor wake the love till she please!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The voice of my beloved! lo, this--he is coming, Leaping on the mountains, skipping on the hills.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My beloved [is] like to a roe, Or to a young one of the harts. Lo, this--he is standing behind our wall, Looking from the windows, Blooming from the lattice.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My beloved hath answered and said to me, `Rise up, my friend, my fair one, and come away,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For lo, the winter hath passed by, The rain hath passed away--it hath gone.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The flowers have appeared in the earth, The time of the singing hath come, And the voice of the turtle was heard in our land,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fig-tree hath ripened her green figs, And the sweet-smelling vines have given forth fragrance, Rise, come, my friend, my fair one, yea, come away.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My dove, in clefts of the rock, In a secret place of the ascent, Cause me to see thine appearance, Cause me to hear thy voice, For thy voice [is] sweet, and thy appearance comely.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Seize ye for us foxes, Little foxes--destroyers of vineyards, Even our sweetsmelling vineyards.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My beloved [is] mine, and I [am] his, Who is delighting among the lilies,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Till the day doth break forth, And the shadows have fled away, Turn, be like, my beloved, To a roe, or to a young one of the harts, On the mountains of separation!</p>

</body>
</html>