<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In those days hath Hezekiah been sick unto death, and come in unto him doth Isaiah son of Amoz, the prophet, and saith unto him, `Thus said Jehovah: Give a charge to thy house, for thou [art] dying, and dost not live.'</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Hezekiah turneth round his face unto the wall, and prayeth unto Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and saith, `I pray thee, O Jehovah, remember, I pray Thee, how I have walked habitually before Thee in truth, and with a perfect heart, and that which [is] good in thine eyes I have done;' and Hezekiah weepeth--a great weeping.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And a word of Jehovah is unto Isaiah, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Go, and thou hast said to Hezekiah, Thus said Jehovah, God of David thy father, `I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tear, lo, I am adding to thy days fifteen years,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and out of the hand of the king of Asshur I deliver thee and this city, and have covered over this city.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And this [is] to thee the sign from Jehovah, that Jehovah doth this thing that He hath spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lo, I am bringing back the shadow of the degrees that it hath gone down on the degrees of Ahaz, by the sun, backward ten degrees:' and the sun turneth back ten degrees in the degrees that it had gone down.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A writing of Hezekiah king of Judah concerning his being sick, when he reviveth from his sickness:</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `I--I said in the cutting off of my days, I go in to the gates of Sheol, I have numbered the remnant of mine years.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I said, I do not see Jah--Jah! In the land of the living, I do not behold man any more, With the inhabitants of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My sojourning hath departed, And been removed from me as a shepherd's tent, I have drawn together, as a weaver, my life, By weakness it cutteth me off, From day unto night Thou dost end me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I have set [Him] till morning as a lion, So doth He break all my bones, From day unto night Thou dost end me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As a crane--a swallow--so I chatter, I mourn as a dove, Drawn up have been mine eyes on high, O Jehovah, oppression [is] on me, be my surety.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> --What do I say? seeing He said to me, And He Himself hath wrought, I go softly all my years for the bitterness of my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lord, by these do [men] live, And by all in them [is] the life of my spirit, And Thou savest me, make me also to live,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Lo, to peace He changed for me bitterness, And Thou hast delighted in my soul without corruption, For Thou hast cast behind Thy back all my sins.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For Sheol doth not confess Thee, Death doth not praise Thee, Those going down to the pit hope not for Thy truth.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The living, the living, he doth confess Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Like myself to-day--a father to sons Doth make known of Thy faithfulness, O Jehovah--to save me: And my songs we sing all days of our lives In the house of Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Isaiah saith, `Let them take a bunch of figs, and plaster over the ulcer, and he liveth.'</p>

<p><a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Hezekiah saith, `What [is] the sign that I go up to the house of Jehovah!'</p>

</body>
</html>