<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For, lo, the Lord, Jehovah of Hosts, Is turning aside from Jerusalem, And from Judah, stay and staff, Every stay of bread, and every stay of water.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hero and man of war, judge and prophet, And diviner and elder,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Head of fifty, and accepted of faces, And counsellor, and the wise of artificers, And the intelligent of charmers.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I have made youths their heads, And sucklings rule over them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the people hath exacted--man upon man, Even a man on his neighbour, Enlarge themselves do the youths against the aged, And the lightly esteemed against the honoured.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When one layeth hold on his brother, [Of] the house of his father, [by] the garment, `Come, a ruler thou art to us, And this ruin [is] under thy hand.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He lifteth up, in that day, saying: `I am not a binder up, And in my house is neither bread nor garment, Ye do not make me a ruler of the people.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For stumbled hath Jerusalem, and Judah hath fallen, For their tongue and their doings [are] against Jehovah, To provoke the eyes of His glory.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The appearance of their faces witnessed against them, And their sin, as Sodom, they declared, They have not hidden! Woe to their soul, For they have done to themselves evil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say ye to the righteous, that [it is] good, Because the fruit of their doings they eat.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Woe to the wicked--evil, Because the deed of his hand is done to him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My people--its exactors [are] sucklings, And women have ruled over it. My people-- thy eulogists are causing to err, And the way of thy paths swallowed up.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jehovah hath stood up to plead, And He is standing to judge the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah into judgment doth enter With elders of His people, and its heads: `And ye, ye have consumed the vineyard, Plunder of the poor [is] in your houses.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What--to you? ye bruise My people, And the faces of the poor ye grind.' An affirmation of the Lord, Jehovah of Hosts, And Jehovah saith:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `Because that daughters of Zion have been haughty, And they walk stretching out the neck, And deceiving [with] the eyes, Walking and mincing they go, And with their feet they make a tinkling,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The Lord also hath scabbed The crown of the head of daughters of Zion, And Jehovah their simplicity exposeth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day doth the Lord turn aside The beauty of the tinkling ornaments, And of the embroidered works, And of the round tires like moons,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Of the drops, and the bracelets, and the mufflers,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Of the bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, And of the bands, And of the perfume boxes, and the amulets,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Of the seals, and of the nose-rings,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Of the costly apparel, and of the mantles, And of the coverings, and of the purses,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Of the mirrors, and of the linen garments, And of the hoods, and of the vails,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it hath been, instead of spice is muck, And instead of a girdle, a rope, And instead of curled work, baldness, And instead of a stomacher a girdle of sackcloth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For instead of glory, thy men by sword do fall, And thy might in battle.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And lamented and mourned have her openings, Yea, she hath been emptied, on the earth she sitteth!</p>

</body>
</html>