<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe [to] apostate sons, The affirmation of Jehovah! To do counsel, and not from Me, And to spread out a covering, and not of My spirit, So as to add sin to sin.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who are walking to go down to Egypt, And My mouth have not asked, To be strong in the strength of Pharaoh, And to trust in the shadow of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the strength of Pharaoh Hath been to you for shame, And the trust in the shadow of Egypt confusion,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For in Zoan were his princes, And his messengers reach Hanes.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All he made ashamed of a people that profit not, Neither for help, not for profit, But for shame, and also for reproach!</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The burden of the beasts of the south. Into a land of adversity and distress, Of young lion and of old lion, Whence [are] viper and flying saraph, They carry on the shoulder of asses their wealth, And on the hump of camels their treasures, Unto a people not profitable.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yea, Egyptians [are] vanity, and in vain do help, Therefore I have cried concerning this: `Their strength [is] to sit still.'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> No, go in, write it on a tablet with them, And on a book engrave it, And it is for a latter day, for a witness unto the age,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That a rebellious people [is] this, sons--liars, Sons not willing to hear the law of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who have said to seers, `Ye do not see,' And to prophets, `Ye do not prophesy to us Straightforward things, Speak to us smooth things, prophesy deceits,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Turn aside from the way, decline from the path, Cause to cease from before us the Holy One of Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, thus said the Holy One of Israel, Because of your kicking against this word, And ye trust in oppression, And perverseness, and rely on it,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore is this iniquity to you as a breach falling, Swelled out in a wall set on high, Whose destruction suddenly, at an instant cometh.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And He hath broken it As the breaking of the potters' bottle, Beaten down--He doth not spare, Nor is there found, in its beating down, A potsherd to take fire from the burning, And to draw out waters from a ditch.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For thus said the Lord Jehovah, The Holy One of Israel: `In returning and rest ye are saved, In keeping quiet and in confidence is your might, And ye have not been willing.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And ye say, No, for on a horse we flee? Therefore ye flee, And on the swift we ride! Therefore swift are your pursuers.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> One thousand because of the rebuke of one, Because of the rebuke of five ye flee, Till ye have been surely left as a pole On the top of the mountain, And as an ensign on the height.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And therefore doth wait Jehovah to favour you, And therefore He is exalted to pity you, For a God of judgment [is] Jehovah, O the blessedness of all waiting for Him.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the people in Zion dwell in Jerusalem, Weep thou not, weeping, Pitying, He pitieth thee at the voice of thy cry, When He heareth He answereth thee.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the Lord hath given to you bread of adversity, And water of oppression. And thy directors remove no more, And thine eyes have seen thy directors,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And thine ear heareth a word behind thee, Saying, `This [is] the way, go ye in it,' When ye turn to the right, And when ye turn to the left.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And ye have defiled the covering of Thy graven images of silver, And the ephod of thy molten image of gold, Thou scatterest them as a sickening thing, `Go out,' thou sayest to it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And He hath given rain [for] thy seed, With which thou dost sow the ground, And bread, the increase of the ground, And it hath been fat and plenteous, Enjoy do thy cattle in that day an enlarged pasture.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the oxen and the young asses serving the ground, Fermented provender do eat, That one is winnowing with shovel and fan.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And there hath been on every high mount, And on every exalted hill, Rivulets-- streams of waters, In a day of much slaughter, in the falling of towers.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the light of the moon hath been as the light of the sun, And the light of the sun is sevenfold, As the light of seven days, In the day of Jehovah's binding up the breach of His people, When the stroke of its wound He healeth.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Lo, the name of Jehovah is coming from far, Burning is His anger, and great the flame, His lips have been full of indignation, And His tongue [is] as a devouring fire.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And His breath [is] as an overflowing stream, Unto the neck it divideth, To sift nations with a sieve of vanity, And a bridle causing to err, [Is] on the jaws of the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Singing is to you as in a night sanctified for a festival, And joy of heart as he who is going with a pipe, To go in to the mountain of Jehovah, Unto the rock of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And caused to be heard hath Jehovah The honour of His voice, And the coming down of His arm He doth shew with the raging of anger, And the flame of a consuming fire, Scattering, and inundation, and hailstone.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For from the voice of Jehovah broken down [is] Asshur, With a rod He smiteth.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And every passage of the settled staff, That Jehovah causeth to rest on him, Hath been with tabrets, and with harps, And in battles of shaking he hath fought with it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For, arranged from former time is Tophet, Even it for the king is prepared, He hath made deep, He hath made large, Its pile [is] fire and much wood, The breath of Jehovah, As a stream of brim stone, is burning in it!</p>

</body>
</html>