<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 52</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 52</h2>

<p><a id="c52_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Awake, awake, put on thy strength, O Zion, Put on the garments of thy beauty, Jerusalem--the Holy City; For enter no more into thee again, Do the uncircumcised and unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Shake thyself from dust, arise, sit, O Jerusalem, Bands of thy neck have loosed themselves, O captive, daughter of Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thus said Jehovah: `For nought ye have been sold, And not by money are ye redeemed.'</p>

<p><a id="c52_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus said the Lord Jehovah: `To Egypt My people went down at first to sojourn there, And Asshur--for nought he hath oppressed it.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now, what--to Me here, An affirmation of Jehovah, That taken is My people for nought? Its rulers cause howling, --an affirmation of Jehovah, And continually all the day My name is despised.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore doth My people know My name, Therefore, in that day, Surely I [am] He who is speaking, behold Me.'</p>

<p><a id="c52_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> How comely on the mountains, Have been the feet of one proclaiming tidings, Sounding peace, proclaiming good tidings, Sounding salvation, Saying to Zion, `Reigned hath thy God.'</p>

<p><a id="c52_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The voice of thy watchmen! They have lifted up the voice, together they cry aloud, Because eye to eye they see, in Jehovah's turning back [to] Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Break forth, sing together, O wastes of Jerusalem, For Jehovah hath comforted His people, He hath redeemed Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jehovah hath made bare His holy arm Before the eyes of all the nations, And seen have all the ends of the earth, The salvation of our God.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Turn aside, turn aside, go out thence, The unclean touch not, go out from her midst, Be ye pure, who are bearing the weapons of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For not in haste do ye go out, Yea, with flight ye go not on, For going before you [is] Jehovah, And gathering you [is] the God of Israel!</p>

<p><a id="c52_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Lo, My servant doth act wisely, He is high, and hath been lifted up, And hath been very high.</p>

<p><a id="c52_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As astonished at thee have been many, (So marred by man his appearance, And his form by sons of men.)</p>

<p><a id="c52_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So doth he sprinkle many nations. Concerning him kings shut their mouth, For that which was not recounted to them they have seen, And that which they had not heard they have understood!</p>

</body>
</html>