<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 45</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 45</h2>

<p><a id="c45_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus said Jehovah, To His anointed, to Cyrus, Whose right hand I have laid hold on, To subdue nations before him, Yea, loins of kings I loose, To open before him two-leaved doors, Yea, gates are not shut:</p>

<p><a id="c45_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `I go before thee, and crooked places make straight, Two-leaved doors of brass I shiver, And bars of iron I cut asunder,</p>

<p><a id="c45_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And have given to thee treasures of darkness, Even treasures of secret places, So that thou knowest that I, Jehovah, Who am calling on thy name--[am] the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the sake of my servant Jacob, And of Israel My chosen, I call also thee by thy name, I surname thee, And thou hast not known Me.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I [am] Jehovah, and there is none else, Except Me there is no God, I gird thee, and thou hast not known Me.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So that they know from the rising of the sun, And from the west, that there is none besides Me, I [am] Jehovah, and there is none else,</p>

<p><a id="c45_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Forming light, and preparing darkness, Making peace, and preparing evil, I [am] Jehovah, doing all these things.'</p>

<p><a id="c45_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Drop, ye heavens, from above, And clouds do cause righteousness to flow, Earth openeth, and they are fruitful, Salvation and righteousness spring up together, I, Jehovah, have prepared it.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Woe [to] him who is striving with his Former, (A potsherd with potsherds of the ground!) Doth clay say to its Framer, `What dost thou?' And thy work, `He hath no hands?'</p>

<p><a id="c45_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Woe [to] him who is saying to a father, `What dost thou beget?' Or to a wife, `What dost thou bring forth?</p>

<p><a id="c45_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus said Jehovah, The Holy One of Israel, and his Former: Ask Me of the things coming concerning My sons, Yea, concerning the work of My hands, ye command Me.'</p>

<p><a id="c45_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I made earth, and man on it prepared, I--My hands stretched out the heavens, And all their host I have commanded.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I have stirred him up in righteousness, And all his ways I make straight, He doth build My city, and My captivity doth send out, Not for price, nor for bribe, said Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thus said Jehovah, `The labour of Egypt, And the merchandise of Cush, And of the Sebaim--men of measure, Unto thee pass over, and thine they are, After thee they go, in fetters they pass over, And unto thee they bow themselves, Unto thee they pray: Only in thee [is] God, And there is none else, no [other] God.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Surely Thou [art] a God hiding Thyself, God of Israel--Saviour!</p>

<p><a id="c45_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They have been ashamed, And they have even blushed--all of them, Together gone in confusion have those carving images.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Israel hath been saved in Jehovah, A salvation age-during! Ye are not ashamed nor confounded Unto the ages of eternity!</p>

<p><a id="c45_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For thus said Jehovah, Creator of heaven, He is God, Former of earth, and its Maker, He established it--not empty He prepared it, For inhabiting He formed it: `I [am] Jehovah, and there is none else.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Not in secret have I spoken, in a dark place of the earth, I have not said to the seed of Jacob, In vain seek ye Me, I [am] Jehovah, speaking righteousness, Declaring uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Be gathered, and come in, Come nigh together, ye escaped of the nations, They have not known, Who are lifting up the wood of their graven image, And praying unto a god [that] saveth not.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Declare ye, and bring near, Yea, they take counsel together, Who hath proclaimed this from of old? From that time hath declared it? Is it not I--Jehovah? And there is no other god besides Me, A God righteous and saving, there is none save Me.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Turn to Me, and be saved, all ends of the earth, For I [am] God, and there is none else.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> By Myself I have sworn, Gone out from my mouth in righteousness hath a word, And it turneth not back, That to Me, bow doth every knee, every tongue swear.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Only in Jehovah, said hath one, Have I righteousness and strength, Unto Him he cometh in, And ashamed are all those displeased with Him.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In Jehovah are all the seed of Israel justified, And they boast themselves.'</p>

</body>
</html>