<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lo, for righteousness doth a king reign, As to princes, for judgment they rule.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And each hath been as a hiding-place [from] wind, And as a secret hiding-place [from] inundation, As rivulets of waters in a dry place, As a shadow of a heavy rock in a weary land.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And not dazzled are the eyes of beholders, And the ears of hearers do attend.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the heart of those hastened Understandeth to know, And the tongue of stammerers hasteth to speak clearly.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A fool is no more called `noble,' And to a miser it is not said, `rich;'</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For a fool speaketh folly, And his heart doth iniquity, to do profanity, And to speak concerning Jehovah error, To empty the soul of the hungry, Yea, drink of the thirsty he causeth to lack.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the miser--his instruments [are] evil, He hath counselled wicked devices, To corrupt the poor with lying sayings, Even when the needy speaketh justly.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the noble counselled noble things, And he for noble things riseth up.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Women, easy ones, rise, hear my voice, Daughters, confident ones, give ear [to] my saying,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Days and a year ye are troubled, O confident ones, For consumed hath been harvest, The gathering cometh not.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Tremble ye women, ye easy ones, Be troubled, ye confident ones, Strip and make bare, with a girdle on the loins,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For breasts they are lamenting, For fields of desire, for the fruitful vine.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Over the ground of my people thorn--brier goeth up, Surely over all houses of joy of the exulting city,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Surely the palace hath been left, The multitude of the city forsaken, Fort and watchtower hath been for dens unto the age, A joy of wild asses--a pasture of herds;</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Till emptied out on us is the Spirit from on high, And a wilderness hath become a fruitful field, And the fruitful field for a forest is reckoned.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And dwelt in the wilderness hath judgment, And righteousness in the fruitful field remaineth.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And a work of the righteousness hath been peace, And a service of the righteousness-- Keeping quiet and confidence unto the age.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And dwelt hath My people in a peaceful habitation, And in stedfast tabernacles, And in quiet resting-places.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And it hath hailed in the going down of the forest, And in the valley is the city low.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Happy [are] ye sowing by all waters, Sending forth the foot of the ox and the ass!</p>

</body>
</html>