<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the wilderness of the sea. `Like hurricanes in the south for passing through, From the wilderness it hath come, From a fearful land.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A hard vision hath been declared to me, The treacherous dealer is dealing treacherously, And the destroyer is destroying. Go up, O Elam, besiege, O Media, All its sighing I have caused to cease.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore filled have been my loins [with] great pain, Pangs have seized me as pangs of a travailing woman, I have been bent down by hearing, I have been troubled by seeing.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wandered hath my heart, trembling hath terrified me, The twilight of my desire He hath made a fear to me,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Arrange the table, watch in the watch-tower, Eat, drink, rise, ye heads, anoint the shield,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus said the Lord unto me: `Go, station the watchman, That which he seeth let him declare.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he hath seen a chariot--a couple of horsemen, The rider of an ass, the rider of a camel, And he hath given attention--He hath increased attention!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he crieth--a lion, `On a watch-tower my lord, I am standing continually by day, And on my ward I am stationed whole nights.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And lo, this, the chariot of a man is coming, A couple of horsemen.' And he answereth and saith: `Fallen, fallen hath Babylon, And all the graven images of her gods He hath broken to the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O my threshing, and the son of my floor, That which I heard from Jehovah of Hosts, God of Israel, I have declared to you!'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The burden of Dumah. Unto me is [one] calling from Seir `Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The watchman hath said, `Come hath morning, and also night, If ye inquire, inquire ye, turn back, come.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The burden on Arabia. In a forest in Arabia ye lodge, O travellers of Dedanim.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> To meet the thirsty brought water have Inhabitants of the land of Tema, With his bread they came before a fugitive.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For from the face of destructions they fled, From the face of a stretched-out sword, And from the face of a trodden bow, And from the face of the grievousness of battle.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For thus said the Lord unto me: `Within a year, as years of a hireling, Consumed hath been all the honour of Kedar.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the remnant of the number of bow-men, The mighty of the sons of Kedar are few, For Jehovah, God of Israel, hath spoken!'</p>

</body>
</html>