<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 64</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 64</h2>

<p><a id="c64_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Didst Thou not rend the heavens? Thou didst come down, From thy presence did mountains flow,</p>

<p><a id="c64_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (As fire kindleth stubble--Fire causeth water to boil,) To make known Thy name to Thine adversaries, From Thy presence do nations tremble.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In Thy doing fearful things--we expect not, Thou didst come down, From Thy presence did mountains flow.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Even from antiquity [men] have not heard, They have not given ear, Eye hath not seen a God save Thee, He doth work for those waiting for Him.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast met with the rejoicer And the doer of righteousness, In Thy ways they remember Thee, Lo, Thou hast been wroth when we sin, By them [is] continuance, and we are saved.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And we are as unclean--all of us, And as a garment passing away, all our righteous acts; And we fade as a leaf--all of us. And our iniquities as wind do take us away.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And there is none calling in Thy name, Stirring up himself to lay hold on Thee, For Thou hast hid Thy face from us, And thou meltest us away by our iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And now, O Jehovah, thou [art] our Father, We [are] the clay, and Thou our Framer, And the work of Thy hand--all of us.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be not wroth, O Jehovah, very sore, Nor for ever remember iniquity, Lo, look attentively, we beseech Thee, Thy people [are] we all.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy holy cities have been a wilderness, Zion a wilderness hath been, Jerusalem a desolation.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Our holy and our beautiful house, Where praise Thee did our fathers, Hath become burnt with fire, And all our desirable things have become a waste.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For these dost Thou refrain Thyself, Jehovah? Thou art silent, and dost afflict us very sore!'</p>

</body>
</html>