<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 60</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 60</h2>

<p><a id="c60_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Arise, be bright, for come hath thy light, And the honour of Jehovah hath risen on thee.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For, lo, the darkness doth cover the earth, And thick darkness the peoples, And on thee rise doth Jehovah, And His honour on thee is seen.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And come have nations to thy light, And kings to the brightness of thy rising.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lift up round about thine eyes and see, All of them have been gathered, they have come to thee, Thy sons from afar do come, And thy daughters on the side are supported.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then thou seest, and hast become bright, And thine heart hath been afraid and enlarged, For turn unto thee doth the multitude of the sea, The forces of nations do come to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A company of camels covereth thee, Dromedaries of Midian and Ephah, All of them from Sheba do come, Gold and frankincense they bear, And of the praises of Jehovah they proclaim the tidings.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the flock of Kedar are gathered to thee, The rams of Nebaioth do serve thee, They ascend for acceptance Mine altar, And the house of My beauty I beautify.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who [are] these--as a thick cloud they fly, And as doves unto their windows?</p>

<p><a id="c60_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely for Me isles do wait, And ships of Tarshish first, To bring thy sons from afar, Their silver and their gold with them, To the name of Jehovah thy God, And to the Holy One of Israel, Because He hath beautified thee.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And sons of a stranger have built thy walls, And their kings do serve thee, For in My wrath I have smitten thee, And in My good pleasure I have pitied thee.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And opened have thy gates continually, By day and by night they are not shut, To bring unto thee the force of nations, Even their kings are led.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the nation and the kingdom that do not serve thee perish, Yea, the nations are utterly wasted.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The honour of Lebanon unto thee doth come, Fir, pine, and box together, To beautify the place of My sanctuary, And the place of My feet I make honourable.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And come unto thee, bowing down, Have sons of those afflicting thee, And bowed themselves to the soles of thy feet Have all despising thee, And they have cried to thee: `City of Jehovah, Zion of the Holy One of Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c60_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Instead of thy being forsaken and hated, And none passing through, I have made thee for an excellency age-during, A joy of generation and generation.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thou hast sucked the milk of nations, Yea, the breast of kings thou suckest, And thou hast known that I, Jehovah, Thy Saviour, and Thy Redeemer, [Am] the Mighty One of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Instead of the brass I bring in gold, And instead of the iron I bring in silver, And instead of the wood brass, And instead of the stone iron, And I have made thy inspection peace, And thy exactors righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Violence is not heard any more in thy land, Spoiling and destruction in thy borders, And thou hast called `Salvation' thy walls, And thy gates, `Praise.'</p>

<p><a id="c60_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> To thee no more is the sun for a light by day, And for brightness the moon giveth not light to thee, And Jehovah hath become to thee A light age-during, and thy God thy beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thy sun goeth no more in, And thy moon is not removed, For Jehovah becometh to thee a light age-during. And the days of thy mourning have been completed.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And thy people [are] all of them righteous, To the age they possess the earth, A branch of My planting, A work of My hands, to be beautified.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The little one doth become a chief, And the small one a mighty nation, I, Jehovah, in its own time do hasten it!</p>

</body>
</html>