<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Moab. Because in a night destroyed was Ar of Moab--It hath been cut off, Because in a night destroyed was Kir of Moab--It hath been cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He hath gone up to Bajith and Dibon, The high places--to weep, On Nebo and on Medeba Moab howleth, On all its heads [is] baldness, every beard cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In its out-places they girded on sackcloth, On its pinnacles, and in its broad places, Every one howleth--going down with weeping.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And cry doth Heshbon and Elealeh, Unto Jahaz heard hath been their voice, Therefore the armed ones of Moab do shout, His life hath been grievous to him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My heart [is] toward Moab, Cry do her fugitives unto Zoar, a heifer of the third [year], For--the ascent of Luhith--With weeping he goeth up in it, For, in the way of Horonaim, A cry of destruction they wake up.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For, the waters of Nimrim are desolations, For, withered hath been the hay, Finished hath been the tender grass, A green thing there hath not been.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore the abundance he made, and their store, Unto the brook of the willows they carry.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For gone round hath the cry the border of Moab, Unto Eglaim [is] its howling, And to Beer-Elim [is] its howling.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the waters of Dimon have been full of blood, For I set on Dimon additions, For the escaped of Moab a lion, And for the remnant of Adamah!</p>

</body>
</html>