<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lo, My servant, I take hold on him, My chosen one--My soul hath accepted, I have put My Spirit upon him, Judgment to nations he bringeth forth.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He doth not cry, nor lift up, Nor cause his voice to be heard, in the street.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A bruised reed he breaketh not, And dim flax he quencheth not, To truth he bringeth forth judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He doth not become weak nor bruised, Till he setteth judgment in the earth, And for his law isles wait with hope.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus said God, Jehovah, preparing The heavens, and stretching them out, Spreading out the earth and its productions, Giving breath to the people on it, And spirit to those walking in it.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I, Jehovah, did call thee in righteousness, And I lay hold on thy hand, and keep thee, And I give thee for a covenant of a people, And a light of nations.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To open the eyes of the blind, To bring forth from prison the bound one, From the house of restraint those sitting in darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I [am] Jehovah, this [is] My name, And Mine honour to another I give not, Nor My praise to graven images.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The former things, lo, have come, And new things I am declaring, Before they spring up I cause you to hear.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Sing to Jehovah a new song, His praise from the end of the earth, Ye who are going down to the sea, and its fulness, Isles, and their inhabitants.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The wilderness and its cities do lift up [the voice], The villages Kedar doth inhabit, Sing do the inhabitants of Sela, From the top of mountains they cry.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They ascribe to Jehovah honour, And His praise in the isles they declare.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jehovah as a mighty one goeth forth. As a man of war He stirreth up zeal, He crieth, yea, He shrieketh, Against His enemies He showeth Himself mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have kept silent from of old, I keep silent, I refrain myself, As a travailing woman I cry out, I desolate and swallow up together.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I make waste mountains and hills, And all their herbs I dry up, And I have made rivers become isles, And ponds I dry up.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I have caused the blind to go, In a way they have not known, In paths they have not known I cause them to tread, I make a dark place before them become light, And unlevelled places become a plain, These [are] the things I have done to them, And I have not forsaken them.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Removed backward--utterly ashamed, Are those trusting in a graven image, Those saying to a molten image, `Ye [are] our gods.'</p>

<p><a id="c42_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Ye deaf, hear; and ye blind, look to see.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who [is] blind but My servant? And deaf as My messenger I send? Who [is] blind as he who is at peace, Yea, blind, as the servant of Jehovah?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Seeing many things, and thou observest not, Opening ears, and he heareth not.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jehovah hath delight for the sake of His righteousness, He magnifieth law, and maketh honourable.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And this [is] a people seized and spoiled, Snared in holes--all of them, And in houses of restraint they were hidden, They have been for a prey, And there is no deliverer, A spoil, and none is saying, `Restore.'</p>

<p><a id="c42_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who among you giveth ear [to] this? Attendeth, and heareth afterwards.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Who hath given Jacob for a spoil, And Israel to the spoilers? Is it not Jehovah--He against whom we sinned? Yea, they have not been willing in His ways to walk, Nor have they hearkened to His law.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And He poureth on him fury, His anger, and the strength of battle, And it setteth him on fire round about, And he hath not known, And it burneth against him, and he layeth it not to heart!</p>

</body>
</html>