<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let me sing, I pray you, for my beloved, A song of my beloved as to his vineyard: My beloved hath a vineyard in a fruitful hill,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he fenceth it, and casteth out its stones, And planteth it [with] a choice vine, And buildeth a tower in its midst, And also a wine press hath hewn out in it, And he waiteth for the yielding of grapes, And it yieldeth bad ones!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And now, O inhabitant of Jerusalem, and man of Judah, Judge, I pray you, between me and my vineyard.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What--to do still to my vineyard, That I have not done in it! Wherefore, I waited to the yielding of grapes, And it yieldeth bad ones!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now, pray, let me cause you to know, That which I am doing to my vineyard, To turn aside its hedge, And it hath been for consumption, To break down its wall, And it hath been for a treading-place.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I make it a waste, It is not pruned, nor arranged, And gone up have brier and thorn, And on the thick clouds I lay a charge, From raining upon it rain.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because the vineyard of Jehovah of Hosts [Is] the house of Israel, And the man of Judah His pleasant plant, And He waiteth for judgment, and lo, oppression, For righteousness, and lo, a cry.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Woe [to] those joining house to house, Field to field they bring near, till there is no place, And ye have been settled by yourselves In the midst of the land!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By the weapons of Jehovah of Hosts Do not many houses a desolation become? Great and good without inhabitant!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For ten acres of vineyard do yield one bath, And an homer of seed yieldeth an ephah.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Woe [to] those rising early in the morning, Strong drink they pursue! Tarrying in twilight, wine inflameth them!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And harp, and psaltery, tabret, and pipe, And wine, have been their banquets, And the work of Jehovah they behold not, Yea, the work of His hands they have not seen.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore my people removed without knowledge, And its honourable ones are famished, And its multitude dried up of thirst.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore hath Sheol enlarged herself, And hath opened her mouth without limit. And gone down hath its honour, and its multitude, And its noise, and its exulting one--into her.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And bowed down is the low, and humbled the high, And the eyes of the haughty become low,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jehovah of Hosts is high in judgment, And the Holy God sanctified in righteousness,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And fed have lambs according to their leading, And waste places of the fat ones Do sojourners consume.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Woe [to] those drawing out iniquity with cords of vanity, And as [with] thick ropes of the cart--sin.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who are saying, `Let Him hurry, Let Him hasten His work, that we may see, And let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel Draw near and come, and we know.'</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Woe [to] those saying to evil `good,' And to good `evil,' Putting darkness for light, and light for darkness, Putting bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Woe [to] the wise in their own eyes, And--before their own faces--intelligent!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Woe [to] the mighty to drink wine, And men of strength to mingle strong drink.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Declaring righteous the wicked for a bribe, And the righteousness of the righteous They turn aside from him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, as a tongue of fire devoureth stubble, And flaming hay falleth, Their root is as muck, And their flower as dust goeth up. Because they have rejected the law of Jehovah of Hosts, And the saying of the Holy One of Israel despised.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore hath the anger of Jehovah burned among His people, And He stretcheth out His hand against it, And smiteth it, and the mountains tremble, And their carcase is as filth in the midst of the out-places. With all this His anger did not turn back, And still His hand is stretched out!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And He lifted up an ensign to nations afar off, And hissed to it from the end of the earth, And lo, with haste, swift it cometh.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> There is none weary, nor stumbling in it, It doth not slumber, nor sleep, Nor opened hath been the girdle of its loins, Nor drawn away the latchet of its sandals.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Whose arrows [are] sharp, and all its bows bent, Hoofs of its horses as flint have been reckoned, And its wheels as a hurricane!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Its roaring [is] like a lioness, It roareth like young lions, And it howleth, and seizeth prey, And carrieth away safely, and there is none delivering.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And it howleth against it in that day as the howling of a sea, And it hath looked attentively to the land, And lo, darkness--distress, And light hath been darkened by its abundance!</p>

</body>
</html>