<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe [to] the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim. And the fading flower of the beauty of his glory, That [is] on the head of the fat valley of the broken down of wine.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lo, a mighty and strong one [is] to the Lord, As a storm of hail--a destructive shower, As an inundation of mighty waters overflowing, He cast down to the earth with the hand.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> By feet trodden down is the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the fading flower of the beauty of his glory That [is] on the head of the fat valley, Hath been as its first-fruit before summer, That its beholder seeth, While it [is] yet in his hand he swalloweth it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In that day is Jehovah of Hosts For a crown of beauty, and for a diadem of glory, To the remnant of His people.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And for a spirit of judgment To him who is sitting in the judgment, And for might [to] those turning back the battle to the gate.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And even these through wine have erred, And through strong drink have wandered, Priest and prophet erred through strong drink, They have been swallowed up of the wine, They wandered because of the strong drink, They have erred in seeing, Theyhave stumbled judicially.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For all tables have been full of vomit, Filth--without place!</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By whom doth He teach knowledge? And by whom doth He cause to understand the report? The weaned from milk, the removed from breasts,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For rule [is] on rule, rule on rule, line on line, line on line, A little here, a little there,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For by scorned lip, and by another tongue, Doth He speak unto this people.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Unto whom He hath said, `This [is] the rest, give ye rest to the weary, And this--the refreshing:' And they have not been willing to hear,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And to whom a word of Jehovah hath been, Rule on rule, rule on rule, line on line, line on line, A little here, a little there, So that they go and have stumbled backward, And been broken, and snared, and captured.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, hear a word of Jehovah, ye men of scorning, Ruling this people that [is] in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Because ye have said: `We have made a covenant with death, And with Sheol we have made a provision, An overflowing scourge, when it passeth over, Doth not meet us, Though we have made a lie our refuge, And in falsehood have been hidden.'</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: `Lo, I am laying a foundation in Zion, A stone- -a tried stone, a corner stone precious, a settled foundation, He who is believing doth not make haste.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I have put judgment for a line, And righteousness for a plummet, And sweep away doth hail the refuge of lies, And the secret hiding-place do waters overflow.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And disannulled hath been your covenant with death, And your provision with Sheol doth not stand, An overflowing scourge, when it passeth over, Then ye have been to it for a treading-place.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> From the fulness of its passing over it taketh you, For morning by morning it passeth over, By day and by night, And it hath been only a trembling to consider the report.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For shorter hath been the bed Than to stretch one's self out in, And the covering hath been narrower Than to wrap one's self up in.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For as [at] mount Perazim rise doth Jehovah, As [at] the valley in Gibeon He is troubled, To do His work--strange [is] His work, And to do His deed--strange [is] His deed.'</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And now, show not yourselves scorners, Lest strong be your bands, For a consumption, that is determined, I have heard, by the Lord, Jehovah of Hosts, [Is] for all the land.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Give ear, and hear my voice, Attend, and hear my saying:</p>

<p><a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The whole day plougheth the ploughman to sow? He openeth and harroweth his ground!</p>

<p><a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Hath he not, if he have made level its face, Then scattered fitches, and cummin sprinkle, And hath placed the principal wheat, And the appointed barley, And the rie [in] its own border?</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And instruct him for judgment doth his God, He doth direct him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For not with a sharp-pointed thing threshed are fitches, And the wheel of a cart on cummin turned round, For with a staff beaten out are fitches, And cummin with a rod.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Bread -[corn] is beaten small, For not for ever doth he sorely thresh it, Nor crushed [it] hath a wheel of his cart, Nor do his hoofs beat it small.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Even this from Jehovah of Hosts hath gone out, He hath made counsel wonderful, He hath made wisdom great!</p>

</body>
</html>