<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day lay a charge doth Jehovah, With his sword--the sharp, and the great, and the strong, On leviathan--a fleeing serpent, And on leviathan--a crooked serpent, And He hath slain the dragon that [is] in the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In that day, `A desirable vineyard,' respond ye to her,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I, Jehovah, am its keeper, every moment I water it, Lest any lay a charge against it, Night and day I keep it!</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Fury is not in Me; Who giveth Me a brier--a thorn in battle? I step into it, I burn it at once.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or--he doth take hold on My strength, He doth make peace with Me, Peace he doth make with Me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Those coming in He causeth to take root, Jacob doth blossom, and flourished hath Israel, And they have filled the face of the world [with] increase.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As the smiting of his smiter hath He smitten him? As the slaying of his slain doth He slay?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In measure, in sending it forth, thou strivest with it, He hath taken away by His sharp wind, In the day of an east wind,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore by this is the iniquity of Jacob covered, And this [is] all the fruit--To take away his sin, in His setting all the stones of an altar, As chalkstones beaten in pieces, They rise not- -shrines and images.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the fenced city [is] alone, A habitation cast out and forsaken as a wilderness, There doth the calf delight, And there it lieth down, And hath consumed its branches.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In the withering of its branch it is broken off, Women are coming in setting it on fire, For it [is] not a people of understanding, Therefore pity it not doth its Maker, And its Former doth not favour it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it hath come to pass, in that day, Beat out doth Jehovah from the branch of the river, Unto the stream of Egypt, And ye are gathered one by one, O sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it hath come to pass, in that day, It is blown with a great trumpet, And come in have those perishing in the land of Asshur, And those cast out in the land of Egypt, And have bowed themselves to Jehovah, In the holy mount--in Jerusalem!</p>

</body>
</html>