<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe [to] Ariel, Ariel, The city of the encampment of David! Add year to year, let festivals go round.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I have sent distress to Ariel, And it hath been lamentation and mourning, And it hath been to me as Ariel.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I encamped, O babbler, against thee, And I laid siege against thee--a camp. And I raised up against thee bulwarks.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou hast been low, From the earth thou speakest, And from the dust makest thy saying low, And thy voice hath been from the earth, As one having a familiar spirit, And from the dust thy saying whisperest,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And as small dust hath been The multitude of those scattering thee, And as chaff passing on the multitude of the terrible, And it hath been at an instant--suddenly.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By Jehovah of Hosts thou art inspected, With thunder, and with an earthquake, And great noise, hurricane, and whirlwind, And flame of devouring fire.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And as a dream, a vision of night, hath been The multitude of all the nations Who are warring against Ariel, And all its warriors, and its bulwark, Even of those distressing her.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it hath been, as when the hungry dreameth, And lo, he is eating, And he hath waked, and empty [is] his soul, And as when the thirsty dreameth, And lo, he is drinking, and he hath waked, And lo, he is weary, and his soul is longing, So is the multitude of all the nations Who are warring against mount Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Tarry and wonder, look ye, yea, look, Be drunk, and not with wine, Stagger, and not with strong drink.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For poured out on you hath Jehovah a spirit of deep sleep, And He closeth your eyes-- the prophets, And your heads--the seers--He covered.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the vision of the whole is to you, As words of the sealed book, That they give unto one knowing books, Saying, `Read this, we pray thee,' And he hath said, `I am not able, for it [is] sealed;'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the book is given to him who hath not known books, Saying, `Read this, we pray thee,' And he hath said, `I have not known books.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the Lord saith: Because drawn near hath this people, with its mouth, And with its lips they have honoured Me, And its heart it hath put far off from Me, And their fear of Me is--A precept of men is taught!</p>

<p><a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, lo, I am adding to do wonderfully with this people, A wonder, and a marvel, And perished hath the wisdom of its wise ones, And the understanding of its intelligent ones hideth itself.'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Woe [to] those going deep from Jehovah to hide counsel, And whose works have been in darkness. And they say, `Who is seeing us? And who is knowing us?'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Your perversion! as clay is the potter esteemed? That the work saith of its maker, `He hath not made me?' And the framed thing said of its framer, `He did not understand?'</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Is it not yet a very little, And turned hath Lebanon to a fruitful field, And the fruitful field for a forest is reckoned?</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And heard in that day have the deaf the words of a book, And out of thick darkness, and out of darkness, The eyes of the blind do see.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the humble have added joy in Jehovah, And the poor among men In the Holy One of Israel rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For ceased hath the terrible one, And consumed hath been the scorner, And cut off have been all watching for iniquity,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Causing men to sin in word, And for a reprover in the gate lay a snare, And turn aside into emptiness the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore, thus said Jehovah, Who ransomed Abraham, Concerning the house of Jacob: `Not now ashamed is Jacob, Nor now doth his face become pale,</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For in his seeing his children, The work of My hand, in his midst, They sanctify My name, And have sanctified the Holy One of Jacob, And the God of Israel they declare fearful.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the erring in spirit have known understanding, And murmurers learn doctrine!'</p>

</body>
</html>