<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 61</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 61</h2>

<p><a id="c61_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Spirit of the Lord Jehovah [is] on me, Because Jehovah did anoint me To proclaim tidings to the humble, He sent me to bind the broken of heart, To proclaim to captives liberty, And to bound ones an opening of bands.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To proclaim the year of the good pleasure of Jehovah, And the day of vengeance of our God, To comfort all mourners.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To appoint to mourners in Zion, To give to them beauty instead of ashes, The oil of joy instead of mourning, A covering of praise for a spirit of weakness, And He is calling to them, `Trees of righteousness, The planting of Jehovah--to be beautified.'</p>

<p><a id="c61_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they have built the wastes of old, The desolations of the ancients they raise up, And they have renewed waste cities, The desolations of generation and generation.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And strangers have stood and fed your flock, Sons of a foreigner [are] your husbandmen, And your vine-dressers.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And ye are called `Priests of Jehovah,' `Ministers of our God,' is said of you, The strength of nations ye consume, And in their honour ye do boast yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Instead of your shame and confusion, A second time they sing of their portion, Therefore in their land A second time do they take possession, Joy age-during [is] for them.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I [am] Jehovah, loving judgment, Hating plunder for a burnt-offering, And I have given their wage in truth, And a covenant age-during I make for them.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And known among nations hath been their seed, And their offspring in the midst of the peoples, All their beholders acknowledge them, For they [are] a seed Jehovah hath blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I greatly rejoice in Jehovah, Joy doth my soul in my God, For He clothed me with garments of salvation, With a robe of righteousness covereth Me, As a bridegroom prepareth ornaments, And as a bride putteth on her jewels.</p>

<p><a id="c61_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For, as the earth bringeth forth her shoots, And as a garden causeth its sown things to shoot up, So the Lord Jehovah causeth righteousness and praise To shoot up before all the nations!</p>

</body>
</html>