<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 62</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 62</h2>

<p><a id="c62_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For Zion's sake I am not silent, And for Jerusalem's sake I do not rest, Till her righteousness go out as brightness, And her salvation, as a torch that burneth.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And nations have seen thy righteousness, And all kings thine honour, And He is giving to thee a new name, That the mouth of Jehovah doth define.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou hast been a crown of beauty in the hand of Jehovah, And a diadem of royalty in the hand of thy God,</p>

<p><a id="c62_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> It is not said of thee any more, `Forsaken!' And of thy land it is not said any more, `Desolate,' For to thee is cried, `My delight [is] in her,' And to thy land, `Married,' For Jehovah hath delighted in thee, And thy land is married.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For a young man doth marry a virgin, Thy Builders do marry thee, With the joy of a bridegroom over a bride, Rejoice over thee doth thy God.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> `On thy walls, O Jerusalem, I have appointed watchmen, All the day, and all the night, Continually, they are not silent.' O ye remembrancers of Jehovah, Keep not silence for yourselves,</p>

<p><a id="c62_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And give not silence to Him, Till He establish, and till He make Jerusalem A praise in the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Sworn hath Jehovah by His right hand, Even by the arm of His strength: `I give not thy corn any more [as] food for thine enemies, Nor do sons of a stranger drink thy new wine, For which thou hast laboured.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, those gathering it do eat it, and have praised Jehovah, And those collecting it do drink it in My holy courts.'</p>

<p><a id="c62_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Pass ye on, pass on through the gates, Prepare ye the way of the people, Raise up, raise up the highway, clear it from stones, Lift up an ensign over the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, Jehovah hath proclaimed unto the end of the earth: `Say ye to the daughter of Zion, Lo, thy salvation hath come,' Lo, his hire [is] with him, and his wage before him.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they have cried to them, `People of the Holy One, Redeemed of Jehovah,' Yea, to thee is called, `Sought out one, a city not forsaken!'</p>

</body>
</html>