<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Egypt. Lo, Jehovah is riding on a swift thick cloud, And He hath entered Egypt, And moved have been the idols of Egypt at His presence, And the heart of Egypt melteth in its midst.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I armed Egyptians against Egyptians, And they fought, each against his brother, And each against his neighbour, City against city, kingdom against kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And emptied out hath been in its midst the spirit of Egypt. And its counsel I swallow up, And they have sought unto the idols, And unto the charmers, And unto those having familiar spirits, And unto the wizards.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I have delivered the Egyptians Into the hand of a hard lord, And a strong king doth rule over them, An affirmation of the Lord, Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And failed have waters from the sea, And a river is wasted and dried up.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they have turned away the flowings, Weak and dried up have been brooks of the bulwark, Reed and flag have withered.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Exposed things by the brook, by the edge of the brook, And every sown thing of the brook, hath withered, It hath been driven away, and is not.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And lamented have the fishers, And mourned have all casting angle into a brook, And those spreading nets on the face of the waters have languished.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And ashamed have been makers of fine flax, And weavers of net-works.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And its foundations have been smitten, All making wages [are] afflicted in soul.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Only, fools [are] the princes of Zoan, The counsel of the wise ones of the counsellors of Pharaoh hath become brutish. How say ye unto Pharaoh, `A son of the wise am I, a son of kings of antiquity?'</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Where [are] they now, thy wise ones? Yea, let them tell to thee, I pray thee, And they know what Jehovah of Hosts hath counselled against Egypt!</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Foolish have been princes of Zoan, Lifted up have been princes of Noph, And they have caused Egypt to err, The chief of her tribes.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah hath mingled in her midst A spirit of perverseness, And they have caused Egypt to err in all its work, As a drunkard erreth in his vomit.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And there is no work to Egypt, That head or tail, branch or reed, may do.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In that day is Egypt like women, And it hath mourned, and been afraid, Because of the waving of the hand of Jehovah of Hosts, That He is waving over it.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the land of Judah hath been to Egypt for a cause of staggering, Every one who doth mention it, for himself feareth, Because of the counsel of Jehovah of Hosts, That He is counselling against it.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day there are five cities in the land of Egypt, Speaking the lip of Canaan, And swearing to Jehovah of Hosts, `The city of destruction,' is said of one.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In that day there is an altar to Jehovah In the midst of the land of Egypt, And a standing pillar near its border to Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it hath been for a sign and for a testimony, To Jehovah of Hosts in the land of Egypt, For they cry unto Jehovah from the face of oppressors, And He sendeth to them a saviour, Even a great one, and hath delivered them.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And known hath been Jehovah to Egypt, And the Egyptians have known Jehovah in that day, And done sacrifice and present, And vowed a vow to Jehovah, and completed [it].</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jehovah hath smitten Egypt, smiting and healing, And they have turned back unto Jehovah, And He hath been entreated of them, And hath healed them.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day is a highway out of Egypt to Asshur, And come in have the Assyrians to Egypt, And the Egyptians into Asshur, And the Egyptians have served with the Assyrians.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> In that day is Israel third, After Egypt, and after Asshur, A blessing in the heart of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In that Jehovah of Hosts did bless it, saying, `Blessed [is] My people--Egypt, And the work of My hands--Asshur, And Mine inheritance--Israel!'</p>

</body>
</html>