<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Damascus. Lo, Damascus is taken away from [being] a city, And it hath been a heap--a ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Forsaken are the cities of Aroer, For droves they are, and they have lain down, And there is none troubling.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And ceased hath the fortress from Ephraim, And the kingdom from Damascus, And the remnant of Aram are as the honour of the sons of Israel, The affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts!</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it hath come to pass, in that day, Wax poor doth the honour of Jacob, And the fatness of his flesh doth wax lean.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it hath come to pass, As the gathering by the reaper of the standing corn, And his arm the ears reapeth, And it hath come to pass, As the gathering of the ears in the valley of Rephaim,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And left in him have been gleanings, As the compassing of an olive, Two--three berries on the top of a branch, Four--five on the fruitful boughs, The affirmation of Jehovah, God of Israel!</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In that day doth man look to His Maker, Yea, his eyes to the Holy One of Israel look,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he looketh not unto the altars. The work of his own hands, And that which his own fingers made He seeth not--the shrines and the images.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In that day are the cities of his strength As the forsaken thing of the forest, And the branch that they have left, Because of the sons of Israel, It also hath been a desolation.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because thou hast forgotten the God of thy salvation, And the rock of thy strength hast not remembered, Therefore thou plantest plants of pleasantness, And with a strange slip sowest it,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In the day thy plant thou causest to become great, And in the morning thy seed makest to flourish, A heap [is] the harvest in a day of overflowing, And of mortal pain.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Woe [to] the multitude of many peoples, As the sounding of seas they sound; And [to] the wasting of nations, As the wasting of mighty waters they are wasted.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Nations as the wasting of many waters are wasted, And He hath pushed against it, And it hath fled afar off, And been pursued as chaff of hills before wind, And as a rolling thing before a hurricane.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> At even-time, lo, terror, before morning it is not, This [is] the portion of our spoilers, And the lot of our plunderers!</p>

</body>
</html>