<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Visions of Isaiah son of Amoz, that he hath seen concerning Judah and Jerusalem, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, kings of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, For Jehovah hath spoken: Sons I have nourished and brought up, And they--they transgressed against Me.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> An ox hath known its owner, And an ass the crib of its master, Israel hath not known, My people hath not understood.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ah, sinning nation, a people heavy [with] iniquity, A seed of evil doers, sons-- corrupters! They have forsaken Jehovah, They have despised the Holy One of Israel, They have gone away backward.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wherefore are ye stricken any more? Ye do add apostasy! Every head is become diseased, and every heart [is] sick.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> From the sole of the foot--unto the head, There is no soundness in it, Wound, and bruise, and fresh smiting! They have not been closed nor bound, Nor have they softened with ointment.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your land [is] a desolation, your cities burnt with fire, Your ground, before you strangers are consuming it, And a desolation as overthrown by strangers!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And left hath been the daughter of Zion, As a booth in a vineyard, As a lodge in a place of cucumbers--as a city besieged.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Unless Jehovah of Hosts had left to us a remnant, Shortly--as Sodom we had been, To Gomorrah we had been like!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear the word of Jehovah, ye rulers of Sodom, Give ear to the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `Why to Me the abundance of your sacrifices? saith Jehovah, I have been satiated [with] burnt-offerings of rams, And fat of fatlings; And blood of bullocks, and lambs, And he-goats I have not desired.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When ye come in to appear before Me, Who hath required this of your hand, To trample My courts?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Add not to bring in a vain present, Incense--an abomination it [is] to Me, New moon, and sabbath, calling of convocation! Rendure not iniquity--and a restraint!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Your new moons and your set seasons hath My soul hated, They have been upon me for a burden, I have been weary of bearing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And in your spreading forth your hands, I hide mine eyes from you, Also when ye increase prayer, I do not hear, Your hands of blood have been full.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Wash ye, make ye pure, Turn aside the evil of your doings, from before Mine eyes, Cease to do evil, learn to do good.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Seek judgment, make happy the oppressed, Judge the fatherless, strive [for] the widow.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Come, I pray you, and we reason, saith Jehovah, If your sins are as scarlet, as snow they shall be white, If they are red as crimson, as wool they shall be!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If ye are willing, and have hearkened, The good of the land ye consume,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And if ye refuse, and have rebelled, [By] the sword ye are consumed, For the mouth of Jehovah hath spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> How hath a faithful city become a harlot? I have filled it [with] judgment, Righteousness lodgeth in it--now murderers.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thy silver hath become dross, Thy drink polluted with water.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thy princes [are] apostates, and companions of thieves, Every one loving a bribe, and pursuing rewards, The fatherless they judge not, And the plea of the widow cometh not to them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore--the affirmation of the Lord--Jehovah of Hosts, the Mighty One of Israel: Ah, I am eased of Mine adversaries, And I am avenged of Mine enemies,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I turn back My hand upon thee, And I refine as purity thy dross, And I turn aside all thy tin,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I give back thy judges as at the first, And thy counsellors as in the beginning, After this thou art called, `A city of righteousness--a faithful city.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Zion in judgment is redeemed, And her captivity in righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the destruction of transgressors and sinners [is] together, And those forsaking Jehovah are consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For [men] are ashamed because of the oaks That ye have desired, And ye are confounded because of the gardens That ye have chosen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For ye are as an oak whose leaf is fading, And as a garden that hath no water.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the strong hath been for tow, And his work for a spark, And burned have both of them together, And there is none quenching!</p>

</body>
</html>