<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> As the former time made light The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, So the latter hath honoured the way of the sea, Beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The people who are walking in darkness Have seen a great light, Dwellers in a land of death-shade, Light hath shone upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast multiplied the nation, Thou hast made great its joy, They have joyed before Thee as the joy in harvest, As [men] rejoice in their apportioning spoil.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because the yoke of its burden, And the staff of its shoulder, the rod of its exactor, Thou hast broken as [in] the day of Midian.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For every battle of a warrior [is] with rushing, and raiment rolled in blood, And it hath been for burning--fuel of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For a Child hath been born to us, A Son hath been given to us, And the princely power is on his shoulder, And He doth call his name Wonderful, Counsellor, Mighty God, Father of Eternity, Prince of Peace.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To the increase of the princely power, And of peace, there is no end, On the throne of David, and on his kingdom, To establish it, and to support it, In judgment and in righteousness, Henceforth, even unto the age, The zeal of Jehovah of Hostsdoth this.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A word hath the Lord sent into Jacob, And it hath fallen in Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the people have known--all of it, Ephraim, and the inhabitant of Samaria, In pride and in greatness of heart, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `Bricks have fallen, and hewn work we build, Sycamores have been cut down, and cedars we renew.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jehovah setteth the adversaries of Rezin on high above him, And his enemies he joineth together,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Aram from before, and Philistia from behind, And they devour Israel with the whole mouth. With all this not turned back hath His anger, And still His hand is stretched out.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the people hath not turned back unto Him who is smiting it, And Jehovah of Hosts they have not sought.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jehovah cutteth off from Israel head and tail, Branch and reed--the same day,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Elder, and accepted of face, he [is] the head, Prophet, teacher of falsehood, he [is] the tail.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the eulogists of this people are causing to err, And its eulogised ones are consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore, over its young men the Lord rejoiceth not, And its orphans, and its widows He pitieth not, For every one [is] profane, and an evil doer, And every mouth is speaking folly. With all this not turned back hath His anger, And still Hishand is stretched out.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For burned as a fire hath wickedness, Brier and thorn it devoureth, And it kindleth in thickets of the forest, And they lift themselves up, an exaltation of smoke!</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the wrath of Jehovah of Hosts Hath the land been consumed, And the people is as fuel of fire; A man on his brother hath no pity,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And cutteth down on the right, and hath been hungry, And he devoureth on the left, And they have not been satisfied, Each the flesh of his own arm they devour.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Manasseh--Ephraim, and Ephraim--Manasseh, Together they [are] against Judah, With all this not turned back hath His anger. And still His hand is stretched out!</p>

</body>
</html>