<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 66</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 66</h2>

<p><a id="c66_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus said Jehovah: The heavens [are] My throne, And the earth My footstool, Where [is] this--the house that ye build for Me? And where [is] this--the place--My rest?</p>

<p><a id="c66_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And all these My hand hath made, And all these things are, An affirmation of Jehovah! And unto this one I look attentively, Unto the humble and bruised in spirit, And who is trembling at My word.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Whoso slaughtereth the ox smiteth a man, Whoso sacrificeth the lamb beheadeth a dog, Whoso is bringing up a present--The blood of a sow, Whoso is making mention of frankincense, Is blessing iniquity. Yea, they have fixed on their own ways, And in their abominations their soul hath delighted.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I also--I fix on their vexations, And their fears I bring in to them, Because I have called, and there is none answering, I spake, and they have not hearkened, And they do the evil things in Mine eyes, And on that which I desired not--fixed.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hear a word of Jehovah, Ye who are trembling unto His word, Said have your brethren who are hating you, Who are driving you out, for My name's sake: `Honoured is Jehovah, and we look on your joy,' But they are ashamed.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A voice of noise [is] from the city, a voice from the temple, The voice of Jehovah, giving recompence to His enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Before she is pained she hath brought forth, Before a pang cometh to her, She hath delivered a male.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who hath heard anything like this? Who hath seen anything like these? Is earth caused to bring forth in one day? Born is a nation at once? For she hath been pained, Zion also hath borne her sons.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `Do I bring to the birth, And not cause to bring forth?' saith Jehovah, `Am not I He who is causing to beget? I have also restrained,' said thy God.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, And be glad in her, all ye loving her, Rejoice ye with her for joy, All ye are mourning for her,</p>

<p><a id="c66_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So that ye suck, and have been satisfied, From the breast of her consolations, So that ye wring out, and have delighted yourselves From the abundance of her honour.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For thus said Jehovah: `Lo, I am stretching out to her peace as a river, And as an overflowing stream the honour of nations, And ye have sucked, on the side ye are carried, And on the knees ye are dandled.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As one whom his mother comforteth, so do I comfort you, Yea, in Jerusalem ye are comforted.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And ye have seen, and rejoiced hath your heart, And your bones as tender grass do flourish, And the hand of Jehovah hath been known unto His servants, And He hath been indignant with His enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For, lo, Jehovah in fire cometh, And as a hurricane His chariots, To refresh in fury His anger, And His rebuke in flames of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For by fire and by His sword, Doth Jehovah do judgment with all flesh. And many have been Jehovah's pierced ones.'</p>

<p><a id="c66_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Those sanctifying and cleansing themselves at the gardens, After Ahad in the midst, Eating flesh of the sow, And of the abomination, and of the mouse, Together are consumed, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I--their works and their thoughts, I come to gather all the nations and tongues, And they have come and seen My honour.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I have set among them a sign, And have sent out of them those escaping unto the nations, (Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, drawing bow, Tubal and Javan, the isles that are far off,) Who have not heard My fame, nor seen Mine honour, And they have declared Mine honour among nations.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they have brought all your brethren out of all the nations, A present to Jehovah, On horses, and on chariot, and on litters, And on mules, and on dromedaries, Unto My holy mountain Jerusalem, said Jehovah, As the sons of Israel bring thepresent in a clean vessel, Into the house of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And also of them I take for priests, For Levites, said Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For, as the new heavens and the new earth that I am making, Are standing before Me, An affirmation of Jehovah! So remain doth your seed and your name.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And it hath been from month to month, And from sabbath to sabbath, Come do all flesh to bow themselves before Me, Said Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c66_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they have gone forth, And looked on the carcases of the men Who are transgressing against me, For their worm dieth not, And their fire is not quenched, And they have been an abhorrence to all flesh!</p>

</body>
</html>