<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 55</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 55</h2>

<p><a id="c55_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Ho, every thirsty one, come ye to the waters, And he who hath no money, Come ye, buy and eat, yea, come, buy Without money and without price, wine and milk.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Why do ye weigh money for that which is not bread? And your labour for that which is not for satiety? Hearken diligently unto me, and eat good, And your soul doth delight itself in fatness.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Incline your ear, and come unto me, Hear, and your soul doth live, And I make for you a covenant age-during, The kind acts of David--that are stedfast.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lo, a witness to peoples I have given him, A leader and commander to peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lo, a nation thou knowest not, thou callest, And a nation who know thee not unto thee do run, For the sake of Jehovah thy God, And for the Holy One of Israel, Because He hath beautified thee.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seek ye Jehovah, while He is found, Call ye Him, while He is near,</p>

<p><a id="c55_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Forsake doth the wicked his way, And the man of iniquity his thoughts, And he returneth to Jehovah, and He pitieth him, And unto our God for He multiplieth to pardon.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For not My thoughts [are] your thoughts, Nor your ways My ways, --an affirmation of Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c55_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For high have the heavens been above the earth, So high have been My ways above your ways, And My thoughts above your thoughts.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For, as come down doth the shower, And the snow from the heavens, And thither returneth not, But hath watered the earth, And hath caused it to yield, and to spring up, And hath given seed to the sower, and bread to the eater,</p>

<p><a id="c55_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So is My word that goeth out of My mouth, It turneth not back unto Me empty, But hath done that which I desired, And prosperously effected that [for] which I sent it.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For with joy ye go forth, And with peace ye are brought in, The mountains and the hills Break forth before you [with] singing, And all trees of the field clap the hand.</p>

<p><a id="c55_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Instead of the thorn come up doth fir, Instead of the brier come up doth myrtle, And it hath been to Jehovah for a name, For a sign age-during--it is not cut off!</p>

</body>
</html>