<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The thing that Isaiah son of Amoz hath seen concerning Judah and Jerusalem:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it hath come to pass, In the latter end of the days, Established is the mount of Jehovah's house, Above the top of the mounts, And it hath been lifted up above the heights, And flowed unto it have all the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And gone have many peoples and said, `Come, and we go up unto the mount of Jehovah, Unto the house of the God of Jacob, And He doth teach us of His ways, And we walk in His paths, For from Zion goeth forth a law, And a word of Jehovah from Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And He hath judged between the nations, And hath given a decision to many peoples, And they have beat their swords to ploughshares, And their spears to pruning-hooks, Nation doth not lift up sword unto nation, Nor do they learn any more--war.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O house of Jacob, come, And we walk in the light of Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For Thou hast left Thy people, the house of Jacob. For they have been filled from the east, And [are] sorcerers like the Philistines, And with the children of strangers strike hands.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And its land is full of silver and gold, And there is no end to its treasures, And its land is full of horses, And there is no end to its chariots,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And its land is full of idols, To the work of its hands it boweth itself, To that which its fingers have made,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the low boweth down, and the high is humbled, And Thou acceptest them not.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Enter into a rock, and be hidden in dust, Because of the fear of Jehovah, And because of the honour of His excellency.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The haughty eyes of man have been humbled, And bowed down hath been the loftiness of men, And set on high hath Jehovah alone been in that day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For a day [is] to Jehovah of Hosts, For every proud and high one, And for every lifted up and low one,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And for all cedars of Lebanon, The high and the exalted ones, And for all oaks of Bashan,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And for all the high mountains, And for all the exalted heights,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And for every high tower, And for every fenced wall,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And for all ships of Tarshish, And for all desirable pictures.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And bowed down hath been the haughtiness of man, And humbled the loftiness of men, And set on high hath Jehovah alone been in that day.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the idols--they completely pass away.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And [men] have entered into caverns of rocks, And into caves of dust, Because of the fear of Jehovah, And because of the honour of His excellency, In His rising to terrify the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In that day doth man cast his idols of silver, And his idols of gold, That they have made for him to worship, To moles, and to bats,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To enter into cavities of the rocks, And into clefts of the high places, Because of the fear of Jehovah, And because of the honour of His excellency, In His rising to terrify the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Cease for you from man, Whose breath [is] in his nostrils, For--in what is he esteemed?</p>

</body>
</html>