<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Keep silent towards Me, O isles, And the peoples pass on [to] power, They come nigh, then they speak, `Together--to judgment we draw near.'</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who stirred up from the east a righteous one? He calleth him to His foot, He giveth before him nations, And kings He causeth him to rule, He giveth [them] as dust [to] his sword, As driven stubble [to] his bow.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He pursueth them, he passeth over in safety A path with his feet he entereth not.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who hath wrought and done, Calling the generations from the first? I, Jehovah, the first, and with the last I [am] He.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Seen have isles and fear, ends of the earth tremble, They have drawn near, yea, they come.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Each his neighbour they help, And to his brother he saith, `Be strong.'</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And strengthen doth an artisan the refiner, A smoother [with] a hammer, Him who is beating [on] an anvil, Saying, `For joining it [is] good,' And he strengtheneth it with nails, it is not moved!</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> --And thou, O Israel, My servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, Seed of Abraham, My lover,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whom I have taken hold of, from the ends of the earth, And from its near places I have called thee, And I say to thee, My servant Thou [art], I have chosen thee, and not rejected thee.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Be not afraid, for with thee I [am], Look not around, for I [am] thy God, I have strengthened thee, Yea, I have helped thee, yea, I upheld thee, With the right hand of My righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, all those displeased with thee, They are ashamed and blush, They are as nothing, yea, perish Do the men who strive with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou seekest them, and findest them not, The men who debate with thee, They are as nothing, yea, as nothing, The men who war with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I, Jehovah thy God, Am strengthening thy right hand, He who is saying to thee, `Fear not, I have helped thee.'</p>

<p><a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Fear not, O worm Jacob, ye men of Israel, I helped thee, an affirmation of Jehovah, Even thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lo, I have set thee for a new sharp threshing instrument, Possessing teeth, thou threshest mountains, And beatest small, and hills as chaff thou makest.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou winnowest them, and a wind lifteth them up, And a whirlwind scattereth them, And thou--thou rejoicest in Jehovah, In the Holy One of Israel dost boast thyself.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The poor and the needy are seeking water, And there is none, Their tongue with thirst hath failed, I, Jehovah do answer them, The God of Israel--I forsake them not.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I open on high places rivers, And in midst of valleys fountains, I make a wilderness become a pond of water, And a dry land become springs of water.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I give in a wilderness the cedar, Shittah, and myrtle, and oil-tree, I set in a desert the fir-pine and box-wood together.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So that they see, and know, And regard, and act wisely together, For the hand of Jehovah hath done this, And the Holy One of Israel hath prepared it.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bring near your cause, saith Jehovah, Bring nigh your mighty ones, saith the king of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They bring nigh, and declare to us that which doth happen, The first things--what they [are] declare ye, And we set our heart, and know their latter end, Or the coming things cause us to hear.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Declare the things that are coming hereafter, And we know that ye [are] gods, Yea, ye may do good or do evil, And we look around and see [it] together.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Lo, ye [are] of nothing, and your work of nought, An abomination--it fixeth on you.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have stirred up [one] from the north, And he cometh, From the rising of the sun he calleth in My name, And he cometh in [on] prefects as [on] clay, And as a potter treadeth down mire.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Who hath declared from the first, and we know? And beforetime, and we say, `Righteous?' yea, there is none declaring, Yea, there is none proclaiming, Yea, there is none hearing your sayings.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> First to Zion, Behold, behold them, And to Jerusalem one proclaiming tidings I give,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And I see that there is no man, Yea, of these that there is no counsellor, And I ask them, and they return word:</p>

<p><a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> `Lo, all of them [are] vanity, Nought [are] their works, Wind and emptiness their molten images!'</p>

</body>
</html>