<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah saith unto me: Though Moses and Samuel should stand before Me, My soul is not toward this people, Send from before My face, and they go out.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it hath come to pass, when they say to thee, Whither do we go out? that thou hast said unto them, Thus said Jehovah: Those who [are] for death--to death, And those who are for the sword, to the sword, And those who are for famine, to famine, And those who are for captivity, to captivity.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I have appointed over them four kinds, an affirmation of Jehovah, The sword to slay, and the dogs to drag, And the fowl of the heavens, And the beast of the earth, to consume and to devour.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I have given them for a trembling To all kingdoms of the earth, Because of Manasseh son of Hezekiah king of Judah, For that which he did in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For who hath pity on thee, O Jerusalem? And who doth bemoan for thee? And who turneth aside to ask of thy welfare?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou--thou hast left Me--an affirmation of Jehovah, Backward thou goest, And I stretch out My hand against thee, And I destroy thee, I have been weary of repenting,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I scatter them with a fan, in the gates the land, I bereaved, I have destroyed My people, From their ways they turned not back.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Its widows have been more to Me than the sand of the seas, I brought in to them-- against the mother--A young man--a spoiler--at noon. I caused to fall upon her suddenly, wrath and trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Languished hath the bearer of seven, She hath breathed out her spirit, Gone in hath her sun while yet day, It hath been ashamed and confounded, And their residue to the sword I give up before their enemies, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Woe to me, my mother, For thou hast borne me a man of strife, And a man of contention to all the land, I have not lent on usury, Nor have they lent on usury to me--All of them are reviling me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah said, Did I not direct thee for good? Did not I intercede for thee in a time of evil, And in a time of adversity, with the enemy?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Doth one break iron--northern iron, and brass?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy strength and thy treasures For a prey I do give--not for price, Even for all thy sins, and in all thy borders.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I have caused thine enemies To pass over into the land--Thou hast not known, For a fire hath been kindled in Mine anger, Against you it doth burn.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou, Thou hast known, O Jehovah, Remember me, and inspect me, And take vengeance for me of my pursuers, In Thy long-suffering take me not away, Know--I have borne for Thee reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thy words have been found, and I eat them, And Thy word is to me for a joy, And for the rejoicing of my heart, For Thy name is called on me, O Jehovah, God of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I have not sat in an assembly of deriders, Nor do I exult, because of thy hand, -- Alone I have sat, For [with] indignation Thou hast filled me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Why hath my pain been perpetual? And my wound incurable? It hath refused to be healed, Thou art surely to me as a failing stream, Waters not stedfast.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore, thus said Jehovah: If thou turnest back, then I bring thee back, Before Me thou dost stand, And if thou bringest out the precious from the vile, As My mouth thou art! They--they turn back unto thee, And thou dost not turn back unto them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And I have made thee to this people For a wall--brazen--fenced, And they have fought against thee, And they do not prevail against thee, For with thee [am] I to save thee, And to deliver thee--an affirmation of Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I have delivered thee from the hand of evil doers, And I have ransomed thee From the hand of the terrible!</p>

</body>
</html>