<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, come hath Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and all his force unto Jerusalem, and they lay siege against it;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, in the ninth of the month, hath the city been broken up;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and come in do all the heads of the king of Babylon, and they sit at the middle gate, Nergal-Sharezer, Samgar-Nebo, Sarsechim, chief of the eunuchs, Nergal-Sharezer, chief of the Mages, and all the rest of the heads of the king of Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it cometh to pass, when Zedekiah king of Judah, and all the men of war, have seen them, that they flee and go forth by night from the city, the way of the king's garden, through the gate between the two walls, and he goeth forth the wayof the plain.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the forces of the Chaldeans pursue after them, and overtake Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho, and they take him, and bring him up unto Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, to Riblah, in the land of Hamath, and he speaketh with him--judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the king of Babylon slaughtereth the sons of Zedekiah, in Riblah, before his eyes, yea, all the freemen of Judah hath the king of Babylon slaughtered.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the eyes of Zedekiah he hath blinded, and he bindeth him with brazen fetters, to bring him in to Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the house of the king, and the house of the people, have the Chaldeans burnt with fire, and the walls of Jerusalem they have broken down.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the remnant of the people who are left in the city, and those falling who have fallen to him, and the remnant of the people who are left, hath Nebuzar-Adan, chief of the executioners, removed [to] Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And of the poor people, who have nothing, hath Nebuzar-Adan, chief of the executioners, left in the land of Judah, and he giveth to them vineyards and fields on the same day.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon giveth a charge concerning Jeremiah, by the hand of Nebuzar-Adan, chief of the executioners, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `Take him, and place thine eyes upon him, and do no evil thing to him, but as he speaketh unto thee, so do with him.'</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Nebuzar-Adan, chief of the executioners sendeth, and Nebushazban, chief of the eunuchs, and Nergal-Sharezer, chief of the Mages, and all the chiefs of the king of Babylon;</p>

<p><a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> yea, they send and take Jeremiah out of the court of the prison, and give him unto Gedaliah son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, to carry him home, and he dwelleth in the midst of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And unto Jeremiah hath a word of Jehovah been--in his being detained in the court of the prison--saying:</p>

<p><a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `Go, and thou hast spoken to Ebed-Melech the Cushite, saying: Thus said Jehovah of Hosts, God of Israel: Lo, I am bringing in My words unto this city for evil, and not for good, and they have been before thee in that day.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I have delivered thee in that day--an affirmation of Jehovah--and thou art not given into the hand of the men of whose face thou art afraid,</p>

<p><a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for I do certainly deliver thee, and by sword thou fallest not, and thy life hath been to thee for a spoil, for thou hast trusted in Me--an affirmation of Jehovah.'</p>

</body>
</html>