<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word that hath been unto Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Thus spake Jehovah, God of Israel, saying, Write for thee all the words that I have spoken unto thee on a book.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For, lo, days are coming--an affirmation of Jehovah--and I have turned back [to] the captivity of My people Israel and Judah, said Jehovah, and I have caused them to turn back unto the land that I gave to their fathers, and they do possess it.'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And these [are] the words that Jehovah hath spoken concerning Israel and concerning Judah:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Surely thus said Jehovah: A voice of trembling we have heard, Fear--and there is no peace.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ask, I pray you, and see, is a male bringing forth? Wherefore have I seen every man, His hands on his loins, as a travailing woman, And all faces have been turned to paleness?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Woe! for great [is] that day, without any like it, Yea, a time of adversity it [is] to Jacob, Yet out of it he is saved.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it hath come to pass, in that day, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts, I break his yoke from off thy neck, And thy bands I draw away, And lay no more service on him do strangers.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they have served Jehovah their God, And David their king whom I raise up to them.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And thou, be not afraid, My servant Jacob, An affirmation of Jehovah, Nor be affrighted, O Israel, For, lo, I am saving thee from afar, And thy seed from the land of their captivity, And Jacob hath turned back and rested, And is quiet, and there is none troubling.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For with thee [am] I, An affirmation of Jehovah--to save thee, For I make an end of all the nations Whither I have scattered thee, Only, of thee I do not make an end, And I have chastised thee in judgment, And do not entirely acquit thee.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For thus said Jehovah: Incurable is thy breach, grievous thy stroke,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> There is none judging thy cause to bind up, Healing medicines there are none for thee.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> all loving thee have forgotten thee, Thee they do not seek, For with the stroke of an enemy I smote thee, The chastisement of a fierce one, Because of the abundance of thy iniquity, Mighty have been thy sins!</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What! --thou criest concerning thy breach! Incurable [is] thy pain, Because of the abundance of thy iniquity, Mighty have been thy sins! I have done these to thee.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore all consuming thee are consumed, And all thine adversaries--all of them--Into captivity do go, And thy spoilers have been for a spoil, And all thy plunderers I give up to plunder.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I increase health to thee, And from thy strokes I do heal thee, An affirmation of Jehovah, For `Outcast' they have called to thee, `Zion it [is], there is none seeking for her.'</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thus said Jehovah: Lo, I turn back [to] the captivity of the tents of Jacob, And his dwelling places I pity, And the city hath been built on its heap, And the palace according to its ordinance remaineth.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And gone forth from them hath thanksgiving, And the voice of playful ones, And I have multiplied them and they are not few, And made them honourable, and they are not small.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And his sons have been as aforetime, And his company before Me is established, And I have seen after all his oppressors.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And his honourable one hath been of himself, And his ruler from his midst goeth forth, And I have caused him to draw near, And he hath drawn nigh unto Me, For who [is] he who hath pledged his heart To draw nigh unto Me? An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And ye have been to Me for a people, And I am to you for God.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Lo, a whirlwind of Jehovah--Fury hath gone forth--a cutting whirlwind, On the head of the wicked it stayeth.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The fierceness of the anger of Jehovah Doth not turn back till His doing, Yea, till His establishing the devices of His heart, In the latter end of the days we consider it!</p>

</body>
</html>