<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Concerning the sons of Ammon: `Thus said Jehovah: Sons--hath Israel none? heir- -hath he none? Wherefore hath Malcam possessed Gad? And his people in its cities have dwelt?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, lo, days are coming, An affirmation of Jehovah, And I have sounded unto Rabbah of the sons of Ammon a shout of battle, And it hath been for a heap--a desolation, And her daughters with fire are burnt, And Israel hath succeeded its heirs, Said hath Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Howl, Heshbon, for spoiled is Ai, Cry, daughters of Rabbah, gird on sackcloth, Lament, and go to and fro by the hedges, For Malcam into captivity doth go, His priests and his princes together.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What--dost thou boast thyself in valleys? Flowed hath thy valley, O backsliding daughter, Who is trusting in her treasures: Who doth come in unto me?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lo, I am bringing in upon thee a fear, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah of Hosts, From all round about thee, And ye have been driven out each before it, And there is no gatherer of the wandering.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And after this I turn back the captivity of the sons of Ammon, An affirmation of Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Concerning Edom: `Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Is wisdom no more in Teman? Perished hath counsel from the intelligent? Vanished hath their wisdom?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Flee, turn, go deep to dwell, ye inhabitants of Dedan, For the calamity of Esau I brought in upon him, The time I inspected him.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If gatherers have come in to thee, They do not leave gleanings, If thieves in the night, They have destroyed their sufficiency!</p>

<p><a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For I--I have made Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places, And to be hidden he is not able, Spoiled [is] his seed, and his brethren, And his neighbours, and he is not.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Leave thine orphans--I do keep alive, And thy widows--on Me trust ye,</p>

<p><a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For thus said Jehovah: They whose judgment is not to drink of the cup, Do certainly drink, And thou [art] he that is entirely acquitted! Thou art not acquitted, for thou certainly drinkest.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For, by Myself, I have sworn, An affirmation of Jehovah, That for a desolation, for a reproach, For a waste, and for a reviling--is Bozrah, And all her cities are for wastes ageduring.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A report I have heard from Jehovah, And an ambassador among nations is sent, Gather yourselves and come in against her, And rise ye for battle.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For, lo, little I have made thee among nations, Despised among men.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thy terribleness hath lifted thee up, The pride of thy heart, O dweller in clefts of the rock, Holding the high place of the height, For thou makest high as an eagle thy nest, From thence I bring thee down, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Edom hath been for a desolation, Every passer by her is astonished, And doth hiss because of all her plagues.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, And its neighbours, said Jehovah, No one doth dwell there, Nor sojourn in her doth a son of man.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Lo, as a lion he cometh up, Because of the rising of the Jordan, Unto the enduring habitation, But I cause to rest, I cause him to run from off her, And who is chosen? concerning her I lay a charge, For who is like Me? and who conveneth Me? And who [is] this shepherd who standeth before Me?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore, hear ye the counsel of Jehovah, That He hath counselled concerning Edom, And His devices that He hath devised Concerning the inhabitants of Teman: Drag them out do not little ones of the flock, Make desolate over them doth he not their habitation?</p>

<p><a id="c49_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> From the noise of their fall hath the earth shaken, The cry--at the sea of Suph is its voice heard.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Lo, as an eagle he cometh up, and flieth, And he spreadeth his wings over Bozrah, And the heart of the mighty of Edom hath been in that day, As the heart of a distressed woman!'</p>

<p><a id="c49_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Concerning Damascus: Ashamed hath been Hamath and Arpad, For an evil report they have heard, They have been melted, in the sea [is] sorrow, To be quiet it is not able.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Feeble hath been Damascus, She turned to flee, and fear strengthened her, Distress and pangs have seized her, as a travailing woman.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How is it not left--the city of praise, The city of my joy!</p>

<p><a id="c49_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore fall do her young men in her broad places, And all the men of war are cut off in that day, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I have kindled a fire against the wall of Damascus, And it consumed palaces of Ben-Hadad!'</p>

<p><a id="c49_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Concerning Kedar, and concerning the kingdoms of Hazor, that Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath smitten: `Thus said Jehovah: Arise ye, go ye up unto Kedar, And spoil the sons of the east.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Their tents and their flock they do take, Their curtains, and all their vessels, And their camels, they bear away for themselves, And they called concerning them, Fear [is] round about.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Flee, bemoan mightily, go deep to dwell, Ye inhabitants of Hazor--an affirmation of Jehovah, For given counsel against you hath Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, Yea, he deviseth against them a device.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Rise ye, go up unto a nation at rest, Dwelling confidently, an affirmation of Jehovah, It hath no two-leaved doors nor bar, Alone they do dwell.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And their camels have been for a prey, And the multitude of their cattle for a spoil, And I have scattered them to every wind, Who cut off the corner [of the beard], And from all its passages I bring in their calamity, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Hazor hath been for a habitation of dragons, A desolation--unto the age, No one doth dwell there, nor sojourn in it doth a son of man!'</p>

<p><a id="c49_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> That which hath been the word of Jehovah unto Jeremiah the prophet concerning Elam, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c49_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> `Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Lo, I am breaking the bow of Elam, The beginning of their might.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And I have brought in to Elam four winds, From the four ends of the heavens, And have scattered them to all these winds, And there is no nation whither outcasts of Elam come not in.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And I have affrighted Elam before their enemies, And before those seeking their life, And I have brought in against them evil, The heat of Mine anger, An affirmation of Jehovah, And I have sent after them the sword, Till I have consumed them;</p>

<p><a id="c49_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And I have set My throne in Elam, And I have destroyed thence King and princes- -an affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And it hath come to pass, in the latter end of the days, I turn back [to] the captivity of Elam, An affirmation of Jehovah!'</p>

</body>
</html>