<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou dost not take to thee a wife, Nor hast thou sons and daughters in this place.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thus said Jehovah, Of the sons and of the daughters who are born in this place, And of their mothers--those bearing them, And of their fathers--those begetting them in this land:</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Of painful deaths they die, They are not lamented, nor are they buried, For dung on the face of the ground they are, And by sword and by famine are consumed, And their carcase hath been for food To the fowl of the heavens, And to the beast of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thus said Jehovah: Do not enter the house of a mourning-feast, Nor go to lament nor bemoan for them, For I have removed My peace from this people, An affirmation of Jehovah, The kindness and the mercies.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And died have great and small in this land, They are not buried, and none lament for them, Nor doth any cut himself, nor become bald for them.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Nor do they deal out to them for mourning, To comfort him concerning the dead, Nor cause them to drink a cup of consolations For his father and for his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A house of banqueting thou dost not enter, To sit with them, to eat and to drink,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For thus said Jehovah of Hosts, God of Israel: Lo, I am causing to cease from this place, Before your eyes, and in your days, The voice of joy, and the voice of rejoicing, The voice of bridegroom and voice of bride.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And it hath come to pass when thou declarest to this people all these words, and they have said unto thee, `For what hath Jehovah spoken against us all this great evil? yea, what [is] our iniquity, and what our sin, that we have sinned against Jehovah our God?'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then thou hast said unto them: Because that your fathers have forsaken Me, An affirmation of Jehovah, And go after other gods, and serve them, And they bow themselves to them, And Me have forsaken, and My law not kept,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ye also have done evil above your fathers, And lo, ye are walking each after the stubbornness of his evil heart, So as not to hearken unto Me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I have cast you from off this land, On to a land that ye have not known, Ye and your fathers, And ye have served there other gods by day and by night, Where I do not give to you grace.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, lo, days are coming, An affirmation of Jehovah, And it is not said any more: `Jehovah liveth, who brought up The sons of Israel out of the land of Egypt,'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But, `Jehovah liveth, who brought up The sons of Israel out of the land of the north, And out of all the lands whither He drove them,' And I have brought them back to their land, That I gave to their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lo, I am sending for many fishers, An affirmation of Jehovah, And they have fished them, And after this I send for many hunters, And they have hunted them from off every mountain, And from off every hill, and from holes of the rocks.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For Mine eyes [are] upon all their ways, They have not been hidden from My face, Nor hath their iniquity been concealed from before Mine eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I have recompensed a first--A second time--their iniquity and their sin, Because of their polluting My land, With the carcase of their detestable things, Yea, their abominable things have filled Mine inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O Jehovah, my strength, and my fortress, And my refuge in a day of adversity, Unto Thee nations do come from the ends of earth, And say, Only falsehood did our fathers inherit, Vanity, and none among them is profitable.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Doth man make for himself gods, And they--no gods?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore, lo, I am causing them to know at this time, I cause them to know My hand and My might, And they have known that My name [is] Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>