<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who doth make my head waters, And mine eye a fountain of tears? And I weep by day and by night, For the wounded of the daughter of my people.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who doth give me in a wilderness A lodging-place of travellers? And I leave my people, and go from them, For all of them [are] adulterers, An assembly of treacherous ones.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they bend their tongue, their bow [is] a lie, And not for stedfastness have they been mighty in the land, For from evil unto evil they have gone forth, And Me they have not known, An affirmation of Jehovah!</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Each of his friend--beware ye, And on any brother, do not trust, For every brother doth utterly supplant, For every friend slanderously doth walk,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And each at his friend they mock, And truth they do not speak, They taught their tongue to speak falsehood, To commit iniquity they have laboured.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> thy dwelling [is] in the midst of deceit, Through deceit they refused to know Me, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Lo, I am refining them, and have tried them, For how do I do because of the daughter of My people?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A slaughtering arrow [is] their tongue, Deceit it hath spoken in its mouth, Peace with its neighbour it speaketh, And in its heart it layeth its ambush,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For these things do not I see after them? An affirmation of Jehovah, Against a nation such as this doth not My soul avenge itself?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the mountains I lift up weeping and wailing, And for the habitations of the wilderness a lamentation, For they have been burnt up without any passing over, Nor have they heard the voice of cattle, From the fowl of the heavens unto the beast they have fled, they have gone.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I make Jerusalem become heaps, A habitation of dragons, And the cities of Judah I make a desolation, Without inhabitant.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who [is] the wise man? and he understandeth this, And he to whom the mouth of Jehovah spake? And he doth declare it, For what hath the land perished? It hath been burnt up as a wilderness, Without any passing through.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jehovah saith: Because of their forsaking My law that I set before them, And they have not hearkened to My voice nor walked in it,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they walk after the stubbornness of their heart, And after the Baalim, that their fathers taught them,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, thus said Jehovah of Hosts, God of Israel: Lo, I am causing them--this people--to eat wormwood, And I have caused them to drink water of gall,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I have scattered them among nations Which they knew not, they and their fathers, And have sent after them the sword, Till I have consumed them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Consider ye, and call for mourning women, And they come, And to the wise women send, and they come,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they hasten, and lift up for us a wailing. And run down our eyes do tears, And from our eyelids do waters flow.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For--a voice of wailing is heard from Zion: How have we been spoiled! We have been greatly ashamed, Because we have forsaken the land, Because they have cast down our tabernacles.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But hear, ye women, a word of Jehovah, And your ear receiveth a word of His mouth, And teach ye your daughters wailing, and each her neighbour lamentation.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For death hath come up into our windows, It hath come into our palaces, To cut off the suckling from without, Young men from the broad places.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Speak thus--an affirmation of Jehovah, And fallen hath the carcase of man, As dung on the face of the field, And as a handful after the reaper, And there is none gathering.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thus said Jehovah: Let not the wise boast himself in his wisdom, Nor let the mighty boast himself in his might, Let not the rich boast himself in his riches,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But--in this let the boaster boast himself, In understanding and knowing Me, For I [am] Jehovah, doing kindness, Judgment, and righteousness, in the earth, For in these I have delighted, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Lo, days are coming--an affirmation of Jehovah, And I have laid a charge on all circumcised in the foreskin,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> On Egypt, and on Judah, and on Edom, And on the sons of Ammon, and on Moab, And on all cutting the corner [of the beard], Who are dwelling in the wilderness, For all the nations [are] uncircumcised, And all the house of Israel [are] uncircumcised in heart!</p>

</body>
</html>