<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word that hath been unto Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim son of Josiah king of Judah, --it [is] the first year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, --</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Which Jeremiah the prophet hath spoken concerning all the people of Judah, even unto all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> `From the thirteenth year of Josiah son of Amon king of Judah, and unto this day-- this three and twentieth year--hath the word of Jehovah been unto me, and I speak unto you, rising early and speaking, and ye have not hearkened;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jehovah hath sent unto you all His servants, the prophets, rising early and sending, and ye have not hearkened, nor inclined your ear to hear, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `Turn back, I pray you, each from his evil way, and from the evil of your doings, and dwell on the ground that Jehovah hath given to you and to your fathers from age unto age,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And ye do not go after other gods to serve them, and to bow yourselves to them, nor do ye provoke Me to anger with the work of your hands, and I do no evil to you;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And ye have not hearkened unto Me--an affirmation of Jehovah--so as to provoke Me to anger with the work of your hands for evil to you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `Therefore thus said Jehovah of Hosts, Because that ye have not obeyed My words,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lo, I am sending, and have taken all the families of the north--an affirmation of Jehovah--even unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, My servant, and have brought them in against this land, and against its inhabitants, and against all these nations round about, and have devoted them, and appointed them for an astonishment, and for a hissing, and for wastes ageduring.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I have destroyed from them the voice of rejoicing, and the voice of joy, voice of bridegroom and voice of bride, noise of millstones, and the light of lamps.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And all this land hath been for a waste, for an astonishment, and these nations have served the king of Babylon seventy years.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `And it hath come to pass, at the fulness of seventy years, I charge against the king of Babylon, and against that nation--an affirmation of Jehovah--their iniquity, and against the land of the Chaldeans, and have appointed it for desolations age-during.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I have brought in on that land all My words that I have spoken against it, all that is written in this book, that Jeremiah hath prophesied concerning all the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For laid service on them--also them--have many nations and great kings, and I have given recompence to them according to their doing, and according to the work of their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `For thus said Jehovah God of Israel unto me, Take the wine cup of this fury out of My hand, and thou hast caused all the nations to drink it unto whom I am sending thee;</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they have drunk, and shaken themselves and shewn themselves foolish, because of the sword that I am sending among them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `And I take the cup out of the hand of Jehovah, and cause all the nations to drink unto whom Jehovah sent me:</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, And its kings, its heads, To give them to waste, to astonishment, To hissing, and to reviling, as [at] this day.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Pharaoh king of Egypt, and his servants, And his heads, and all his people,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And all the mixed people, And all the kings of the land of Uz, And all the kings of the land of the Philistines, And Ashkelon, and Gazzah, and Ekron, And the remnant of Ashdod,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Edom, and Moab, and the sons of Ammon,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And all the kings of Tyre, And all the kings of Zidon, And the kings of the isle that [is] beyond the sea,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, And all cutting the corners [of the beard],</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And all the kings of Arabia, And all the kings of the mixed people, Who are dwelling in the wilderness,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And all the kings of Zimri, And all the kings of Elam, And all the kings of Media,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And all the kings of the north, The near and the far off, one unto another, And all the kingdoms of the earth, That [are] on the face of the ground, And king Sheshach drinketh after them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And thou hast said unto them: Thus said Jehovah of Hosts God of Israel, Drink ye, yea drink abundantly, And vomit, and fall, and rise not, Because of the sword that I am sending among you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it hath come to pass, When they refuse to receive the cup out of thy hand to drink, That thou hast said unto them: Thus said Jehovah of Hosts, Ye do certainly drink.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For lo, in the city over which My name is called, I am beginning to do evil, And ye--ye are entirely acquitted! Ye are not acquitted, for a sword I am proclaiming, For all inhabitants of the land, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And thou, thou dost prophesy unto them all these words, and hast said unto them: Jehovah from the high place doth roar, And from His holy habitation giveth forth His voice, He surely roareth for His habitation, A shout as of treaders down, God answereth all the inhabitants of the land,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Wasting hath come unto the end of the earth, For a controversy hath Jehovah with nations, He hath executed judgment for all flesh, The wicked! He hath given them to the sword, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Lo, evil is going out from nation to nation, And a great whirlwind is stirred up from the sides of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the pierced of Jehovah have been in that day, From the end of the earth even unto the end of the earth, They are not lamented, nor gathered, nor buried, For dung on the face of the ground they are.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Howl, ye shepherds, and cry, And roll yourselves, ye honourable of the flock, For full have been your days, For slaughtering, and [for] your scatterings, And ye have fallen as a desirable vessel.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And perished hath refuge from the shepherds, And escape from the honourable of the flock.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> A voice [is] of the cry of the shepherds, And a howling of the honourable of the flock, For Jehovah is spoiling their pasture.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the peaceable habitations have been cut down, Because of the fierceness of the anger of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He hath forsaken, as a young lion, His covert, Surely their land hath become a desolation, Because of the oppressing fierceness, And because of the fierceness of His anger!</p>

</body>
</html>