<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass, in the seventh month, come hath Ishmael son of Nethaniah, son of Elishama, of the seed royal, and of the chiefs of the king, and ten men with him, unto Gedaliah son of Ahikam, to Mizpah, and they eat there bread together in Mizpah.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Ishmael son of Nethaniah riseth, and the ten men who have been with him, and they smite Gedaliah son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, with the sword, and he putteth him to death whom the king of Babylon hath appointed over the land.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And all the Jews who have been with him, with Gedaliah, in Mizpah, and the Chaldeans who have been found there--the men of war--hath Ishmael smitten.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it cometh to pass, on the second day of the putting of Gedaliah to death, (and no one hath known,)</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that men come in from Shechem, from Shiloh, and from Samaria--eighty men--with shaven beards, and rent garments, and cutting themselves, and an offering and frankincense in their hand, to bring in to the house of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Ishmael son of Nethaniah goeth forth to meet them, from Mizpah, going on and weeping, and it cometh to pass, at meeting them, that he saith unto them, `Come in unto Gedaliah son of Ahikam.'</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it cometh to pass, at their coming in unto the midst of the city, that Ishmael son of Nethaniah doth slaughter them, at the midst of the pit, he and the men who [are] with him.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And ten men have been found among them, and they say unto Ishmael, `Do not put us to death, for we have things hidden in the field--wheat, and barley, and oil, and honey.' And he forbeareth, and hath not put them to death in the midst of their brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the pit whither Ishmael hath cast all the carcases of the men whom he hath smitten along with Gedaliah, is that which the king Asa made because of Baasha king of Israel--it hath Ishmael son of Nethaniah filled with the pierced.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Ishmael taketh captive all the remnant of the people who [are] in Mizpah, the daughters of the king, and all the people who are left in Mizpah, whom Nebuzar-Adan, chief of the executioners, hath committed [to] Gedaliah son of Ahikam, and Ishmael son of Nethaniah taketh them captive, and goeth to pass over unto the sons of Ammon.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And hear doth Johanan son of Kareah, and all the heads of the forces that [are] with him, of all the evil that Ishmael son of Nethaniah hath done,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and they take all the men, and go to fight with Ishmael son of Nethaniah, and they find him at the great waters that [are] in Gibeon.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it cometh to pass, when all the people who [are] with Ishmael see Johanan son of Kareah, and all the heads of the forces who [are] with him, that they rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And all the people whom Ishmael hath taken captive from Mizpah turn round, yea, they turn back, and go unto Johanan son of Kareah.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Ishmael son of Nethaniah hath escaped, with eight men, from the presence of Johanan, and he goeth unto the sons of Ammon.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Johanan son of Kareah, and all the heads of the forces who [are] with him, take all the remnant of the people whom he hath brought back from Ishmael son of Nethaniah, from Mizpah--after he had smitten Gedaliah son of Ahikam--mighty ones, men of war, and women, and infants, and eunuchs, whom he had brought back from Gibeon,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and they go and abide in the habitations of Chimham, that [are] near Beth-Lehem, to go to enter Egypt,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> from the presence of the Chaldeans, for they have been afraid of them, for Ishmael son of Nethaniah had smitten Gedaliah son of Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon had appointed over the land.</p>

</body>
</html>