<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus said Jehovah unto me, `Go, and thou hast got for thee a girdle of linen, and hast placed it on thy loins, and into water thou dost not cause it to enter:'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and I get the girdle, according to the word of Jehovah, and I place [it] on my loins.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me a second time, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `Take the girdle that thou hast got, that [is] on thy loins, and rise, go to Phrat, and hide it there in a hole of the rock;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and I go and hide it by Phrat, as Jehovah commanded me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it cometh to pass, at the end of many days, that Jehovah saith unto me, `Rise, go to Phrat, and take thence the girdle, that I commanded thee to hide there;'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and I go to Phrat, and dig, and take the girdle from the place where I had hid it; and lo, the girdle hath been marred, it is not profitable for anything.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying, `Thus said Jehovah:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus do I mar the excellency of Judah, And the great excellency of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> This evil people, who refuse to hear My words, Who walk in the stubbornness of their heart, And go after other gods to serve them, And to bow themselves to them, Yea it is--as this girdle, that is not profitable for anything.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For, as the girdle cleaveth unto the loins of a man, So I caused to cleave unto Me The whole house of Israel, And the whole house of Judah, an affirmation of Jehovah, To be to Me for a people, and for a name, And for praise, and for beauty, And they have not hearkened.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou hast said unto them this word, Thus said Jehovah, God of Israel, `Every bottle is full of wine,' And they have said unto thee: `Do we not certainly know that every bottle is full of wine?'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou hast said unto them, `Thus said Jehovah: Lo, I am filling all the inhabitants of this land, And the kings who sit for David on his throne, And the priests, and the prophets, And all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, [With] drunkenness,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And have dashed them one against another, And the fathers and the sons together, An affirmation of Jehovah, I do not pity, nor spare, nor have I mercy, So as not to destroy them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hear, and give ear--be not haughty, For Jehovah hath spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Give ye to Jehovah your God honour, Before He doth cause darkness, And before your feet stumble on dark mountains, And ye have waited for light, And He hath made it for deathshade, And hath appointed [it] for thick darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And if ye do not hear it, In secret places doth my soul weep, because of pride, Yea, it weepeth sore, And the tear cometh down mine eyes, For the flock of Jehovah hath been taken captive.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Say to the king and to the mistress: Make yourselves low--sit still, For come down have your principalities, The crown of your beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The cities of the south have been shut up, And there is none opening, Judah hath been removed--all of her, She hath been removed completely--</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Lift up your eyes, and see those coming in from the north, Where [is] the drove given to thee, thy beautiful flock?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> What dost thou say, when He looketh after thee? And thou--thou hast taught them [to be] over thee--leaders for head? Do not pangs seize thee as a travailing woman?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when thou dost say in thy heart, `Wherefore have these met me?' For the abundance of thine iniquity Have thy skirts been uncovered, Have thy heels suffered violence.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Doth a Cushite change his skin? and a leopard his spots? Ye also are able to do good, who are accustomed to do evil.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I scatter them as stubble, Passing away, by a wind of the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> This [is] thy lot, the portion of thy measures from Me--an affirmation of Jehovah, Because thou hast forgotten me, And dost trust in falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I also have made bare thy skirts before thy face, And thy shame hath been seen.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thine adulteries, and thy neighings, The wickedness of thy whoredom, on heights in a field, I have seen thine abominations. Woe to thee, O Jerusalem, Thou art not cleansed, after when [is it] again?</p>

</body>
</html>