<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Strengthen yourselves, sons of Benjamin, From the midst of Jerusalem, And in Tekoa blow ye a trumpet, And over Beth-Haccerem lift ye up a flame, For evil hath been seen from the north, And great destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The comely and the delicate one I have cut off, The daughter of Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Unto her come do shepherds and their droves, They have stricken tents by her round about, They have fed each [in] his own station.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Sanctify ye against her the battle, Rise, and we go up at noon. Woe to us, for turned hath the day, For stretched out are the shades of evening,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `Rise, and we go up by night, And we destroy her palaces.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Cut down her wood, And pour out against Jerusalem a mount, She [is] the city to be inspected, Wholly--she is oppression in her midst.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As the digging of a well, is [for] its waters, So she hath digged [for] her wickedness, Violence and spoil is heard in her, Before My face continually [are] sickness and smiting.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be instructed, O Jerusalem, Lest My soul be alienated from thee, Lest I make thee a desolation, a land not inhabited.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: They surely glean, as a vine, the remnant of Israel, Put back thy hand, as a gatherer to the baskets.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> To whom do I speak, and testify, and they hear? Lo, their ear [is] uncircumcised, And they are not able to attend. Lo, a word of Jehovah hath been to them for a reproach, They delight not in it.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And with the fury of Jehovah I have been filled, (I have been weary of containing,) To pour [it] on the suckling in the street, And on the assembly of youths together, For even husband with wife are captured, An elder with one full of days,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their houses have been turned to others, Fields and wives together, For I stretch out My hand against the inhabitants of the land, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For from their least unto their greatest, Every one is gaining dishonest gain, And from prophet even unto priest, Every one is dealing falsely,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they heal the breach of the daughter of my people slightly, Saying, `Peace, peace!' and there is no peace.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They were ashamed when they did abomination! Yea, they are not at all ashamed, Yea, blushing they have not known, Therefore they do fall among those falling, In the time I have inspected them, They stumble, said Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus said Jehovah: Stand ye by the ways and see, and ask for paths of old, Where [is] this--the good way? and go ye in it, And find rest for yourselves. And they say, `We do not go.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I have raised up for you watchmen, Attend ye to the voice of the trumpet. And they say, `We do not attend.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore hear, O nations, and know, O company, That which [is] upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hear, O earth, lo, I am bringing evil on this people, The fruit of their devices, For to My words they gave no attention, And My law--they kick against it.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Why [is] this to Me? frankincense from Sheba cometh, And the sweet cane from a land afar off, Your burnt-offerings [are] not for acceptance, And your sacrifices have not been sweet to Me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore thus said Jehovah: Lo, I do give to this people stumbling blocks, And stumbled against them have fathers and sons together, The neighbour and his friend do perish.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thus said Jehovah: Lo, a people hath come from a north country, And a great nation is stirred up from the sides of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Bow and javelin they take hold of, Fierce it [is], and they have no mercy, Their voice as a sea doth sound, And on horses they ride, set in array as a man of war, Against thee, O daughter of Zion.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> `We have heard its sound, feeble have been our hands, Distress hath seized us, pain as of a travailing woman.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Go not forth to the field, And in the way walk not, For a sword hath the enemy, fear [is] round about.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> O daughter of My people, Gird on sackcloth, and roll thyself in ashes, The mourning of an only one make for thee, A lamentation most bitter, For suddenly come doth the spoiler against us.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> A watch-tower I have given thee, Among My people a fortress, And thou knowest, and hast tried their way.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> All of them are turned aside by apostates, Walking slanderously--brass and iron, All of them are corrupters.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The bellows have been burnt, By fire hath the lead been consumed, In vain hath a refiner refined, And the wicked have not been drawn away.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> `Silver rejected,' they have called to them, For Jehovah hath kicked against them!</p>

</body>
</html>