<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time, an affirmation of Jehovah, They bring the bones of the kings of Judah, And the bones of its princes, And the bones of the priests, And the bones of the prophets, And the bones of inhabitants of Jerusalem, Out of their graves,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And have spread them to sun, and to moon, And to all the host of the heavens, that they have loved, And that they have served, And that they have walked after, And that they have sought, And to which they have bowed themselves, They are not gathered, nor buried, They are for dung on the face of the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And chosen is death rather than life By all the remnant who are left of this evil family, In all the remaining places, whither I have driven them, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou hast said unto them: Thus said Jehovah, Do they fall, and not rise? Doth he turn back, and not return?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wherefore hath this people of Jerusalem Turned back--a perpetual backsliding? They have kept hold on deceit, They have refused to turn back.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have given attention, yea, I hearken, They do not speak right, No man hath repented of his wickedness, Saying, What have I done? Every one hath turned to his courses, As a horse is rushing into battle.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Even a stork in the heavens hath known her seasons, And turtle, and swallow, and crane, Have watched the time of their coming, And--My people have not known the judgment of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How do ye say, We [are] wise, And the law of Jehovah [is] with us? Surely, lo, falsely it hath wrought, The false pen of scribes.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ashamed have been the wise, They have been affrighted, and are captured, Lo, against a word of Jehovah they kicked, And the wisdom of what--have they?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, I give their wives to others, Their fields to dispossessors, For from the least even unto the greatest, Every one is gaining dishonest gain, From prophet even unto priest, every one is dealing falsely.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they heal the breach of the daughter of my people slightly, Saying, Peace, peace! and there is no peace.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They were ashamed when they did abomination! Yea, they are not at all ashamed, And blushing they have not known, Therefore, they do fall among falling ones, In the time of their inspection they stumble, said Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I utterly consume them, an affirmation of Jehovah, There are no grapes in the vine, Yea, there are no figs in the fig-tree, And the leaf hath faded, And the strength they have passeth from them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore are we sitting still? Be gathered, and we go in to the fenced cities, And we are silent there, For Jehovah our God hath made us silent, Yea, He causeth us to drink water of gall, For we have sinned against Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Looking for peace--and there is no good, For a time of healing, and lo, terror.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> From Dan hath been heard the snorting of his horses, From the voice of the neighings of his mighty ones, Trembled hath all the land, And they come in and consume the land and its fulness, The city and the inhabitants in it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For, lo, I am sending among you serpents, Vipers that have no charmer, And they have bitten you, an affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> My refreshing for me [is] sorrow, For me my heart [is] sick.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Lo, the voice of a cry of the daughter of my people from a land afar off, Is Jehovah not in Zion? is her king not in her? Wherefore have they provoked Me with their graven images, With the vanities of a foreigner?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Harvest hath passed, summer hath ended, And we--we have not been saved.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For a breach of the daughter of my people have I been broken, I have been black, astonishment hath seized me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? For wherefore hath not the health of the daughter of my people gone up?</p>

</body>
</html>