<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word that hath been unto Jeremiah from Jehovah, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Hear ye the words of this covenant, and ye have spoken unto the men of Judah, and unto the inhabitants of Jerusalem,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and thou hast said unto them, Thus said Jehovah God of Israel: Cursed [is] the man who doth not obey the words of this covenant,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That I commanded your fathers, In the day of My bringing them out from the land of Egypt, Out of the iron furnace, saying, Hearken to My voice, and ye have done them, According to all that I command you, And ye have been to Me for a people,And I am to you for God,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In order to establish the oath that I have sworn to your fathers, To give to them a land flowing with milk and honey, as this day. And I answer and say, `Amen, O Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah saith unto me, `Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying: Hear ye the words of this covenant, And ye have done them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For I certainly testified against your fathers, In the day of My bringing them up out of the land of Egypt--till this day, Rising early and testifying, saying, Hearken to My voice,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they have not hearkened nor inclined their ear, And they walk each in the stubbornness of their evil heart, And I bring on them all the words of this covenant, That I commanded to do, and they did not.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah saith unto me: `A conspiracy is found in the men of Judah, And in the inhabitants of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have turned back to the iniquities of their first fathers, Who refused to hear My words, And they have gone after other gods to serve them, The house of Israel, and the house of Judah, Have made void My covenant, that I made with their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore thus said Jehovah: Lo, I am bringing in unto them evil, That they are not able to go out from, And they have cried unto Me, And I do not hearken unto them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the cities of Judah, and inhabitants of Jerusalem have gone, And they have cried unto the gods, To whom they are making perfume, And they give no deliverance at all to them, In the time of their vexation.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For--the number of thy cities have been thy gods, O Judah, And--the number of the streets of Jerusalem Ye have placed altars to a shameful thing, Altars to make perfume to Baal.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And thou, thou dost not pray for this people, Nor dost thou lift up for them cry and prayer, For I do not hearken in the time of their calling unto Me for their vexation.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What--to My beloved in My house, Her doing wickedness with many, And the holy flesh do pass over from thee? When thou dost evil, then thou exultest.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `An olive, green, fair, of goodly fruit,' Hath Jehovah called thy name, At the noise of a great tumult He hath kindled fire against it, And broken have been its thin branches.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jehovah of Hosts, who is planting thee, Hath spoken evil concerning thee, For the evil of the house of Israel, and of the house of Judah, That they have done to themselves, To provoke Me to anger, to make perfume to Baal.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And, O Jehovah, cause me to know, and I know, Then Thou hast showed me their doings.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I [am] as a trained lamb brought to slaughter, And I have not known That against me they have devised devices: We destroy the tree with its food, and cut him off From the land of the living, And his name is not remembered again.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And O Jehovah of Hosts, judging righteousness, Trying reins and heart, I do see Thy vengeance against them, For unto Thee I have revealed my cause.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore, thus said Jehovah concerning the men of Anathoth, who are seeking thy life, saying: Do not prophesy in the name of Jehovah, And thou dost not die by our hands.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore, thus said Jehovah of Hosts: `Lo, I am seeing after them, The chosen ones die by sword, Their sons and their daughters die by famine,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they have no remnant, For I bring evil unto the men of Anathoth, The year of their inspection!'</p>

</body>
</html>