<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye the word, O house of Israel, That Jehovah hath spoken for you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus said Jehovah: Unto the way of the nations accustom not yourselves, And by the signs of the heavens be not affrighted, For the nations are affrighted by them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the statutes of the peoples are vanity, For a tree from a forest hath one cut, Work of the hands of an artificer, with an axe,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> With silver and with gold they beautify it, With nails and with hammers they fix it, And it doth not stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As a palm they [are] stiff, and they speak not, They are surely borne, for they step not, Be not afraid of them, for they do no evil, Yea, also to do good is not in them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Because there is none like Thee, O Jehovah, Great [art] Thou, and great Thy name in might.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who doth not fear Thee, king of the nations? For to Thee it is becoming, For among all the wise of the nations, And in all their kingdom there is none like Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And in one they are brutish and foolish, An instruction of vanities [is] the tree itself.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Spread-out silver from Tarshish is brought, And gold from Uphaz, Work of an artisan, and of the hands of a refiner, Blue and purple [is] their clothing, Work of the skilful--all of them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jehovah [is] a God of truth, He [is] a living God, and a king age-during, From His wrath shake doth the earth, And nations endure not His indignation.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus do ye say to them, The gods Who the heavens and earth have not made, They do perish from the earth, And from under these heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The maker of the earth by His power, The establisher of the world by His wisdom, Who, by His understanding, stretched forth the heavens,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> At the voice He giveth forth, A multitude of waters [is] in the heavens, And He causeth vapours to come up from the end of the earth, Lightnings for rain He hath made, And bringeth out wind from His treasures.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Brutish is every man by knowledge, Put to shame is every refiner by a graven image, For false [is] his molten image. And there is no breath in them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Vanity [are] they, work of erring ones, In the time of their inspection they perish.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Not like these [is] the Portion of Jacob, For framer of all things [is] He, And Israel [is] the rod of His inheritance, Jehovah of Hosts [is] His name.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Gather from the land thy merchandise, O dweller in the bulwark,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For thus said Jehovah: Lo, I am slinging out the inhabitants of the land at this time, And have been an adversary to them, So that they are found out.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Woe to me for my breaking, Grievious hath been my smiting, And I said, Only, this [is] my sickness, and I bear it.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My tent hath been spoiled, And all my cords have been broken, My sons have gone out from me, and they are not, There is none stretching out any more my tent, And raising up my curtains.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the shepherds have become brutish, And Jehovah they have not sought, Therefore they have not acted wisely, And all their flock is scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A voice of a report, lo, it hath come, Even a great shaking from the north country, To make the cities of Judah a desolation, A habitation of dragons.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I have known, O Jehovah, that not of man [is] his way, Not of man the going and establishing of his step.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Chastise me, O Jehovah, only in judgment, Not in Thine anger, lest Thou make me small.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Pour out Thy fury on the nations that have not known Thee, And on the families that have not called in Thy name, For they have eaten up Jacob, Yea, they have eaten him up, yea, they consume him, And his habitation they have made desolate!</p>

</body>
</html>