<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Pashhur son of Immer the priest--who also [is] overseer, leader in the house of Jehovah--heareth Jeremiah prophesying these things,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and Pashhur smiteth Jeremiah the prophet, and putteth him unto the stocks, that [are] by the high gate of Benjamin, that [is] by the house of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and it cometh to pass on the morrow, that Pashhur bringeth out Jeremiah from the stocks, and Jeremiah saith unto him, `Not Pashhur hath Jehovah called thy name, but--Magor- Missabib.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus said Jehovah: Lo, I am making thee for a fear to thyself, And to all loving thee, And they have fallen by the sword of their enemies, and thine eyes are beholding, And all Judah I give into the hand of the king of Babylon, And he hath removed them to Babylon, And he hath smitten them with the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I have given all the strength of this city, And all its labour, and all its precious things, Yea, all the treasures of the kings of Judah I do give into the hand of their enemies, And they have spoiled them, and taken them, And have brought them into Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou, Pashhur, and all dwelling in thy house, Do go into captivity. and Babylon thou dost enter, And there thou diest, and there thou art buried, Thou and all loving thee, To whom thou hast prophesied falsely.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou hast persuaded me, O Jehovah, and I am persuaded; Thou hast hardened me, and dost prevail, I have been for a laughter all the day, Every one is mocking at me,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Because from the time I speak I cry out, `Violence and destruction,' I cry, For the word of Jehovah hath been to me For reproach and for derision all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I said, `I do not mention Him, Nor do I speak any more in His name,' And it hath been in my heart As a burning fire shut up in my bones, And I have been weary of containing, And I am not able.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For I have heard the evil report of many, Fear [is] round about: `Declare, and we declare it,' All mine allies are watching [for] my halting, `Perhaps he is enticed, and we prevail over him, And we take our vengeance out of him.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jehovah [is] with me, as a terrible mighty one, Therefore my persecutors stumble and prevail not, They have been exceedingly ashamed, For they have not acted wisely, Confusion age-during is not forgotten.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And, O Jehovah of Hosts, trier of the righteous, Beholder of reins and heart, I do see Thy vengeance out of them, For unto Thee I have revealed my cause.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Sing ye to Jehovah, praise Jehovah, For He hath delivered the soul of the needy From the hand of evil doers.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Cursed [is] the day in which I was born, The day that my mother bare me, Let it not be blessed!</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Cursed [is] the man who bore tidings [to] my father, saying, `Born to thee hath been a child--a male,' Making him very glad!</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then hath that man been as the cities, That Jehovah overthrew, and repented not, And he hath heard a cry at morning, And a shout at time of noon.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because he hath not put me to death from the womb, And my mother is to me--my grave, And her womb a pregnancy age-during.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Why [is] this? from the womb I have come out, To see labour and sorrow, Yea, consumed in shame are my days!</p>

</body>
</html>