<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Remember, O Jehovah, what hath befallen us, Look attentively, and see our reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Our inheritance hath been turned to strangers, Our houses to foreigners.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Orphans we have been--without a father, our mothers [are] as widows.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Our water for money we have drunk, Our wood for a price doth come.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For our neck we have been pursued, We have laboured--there hath been no rest for us.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> [To] Egypt we have given a hand, [To] Asshur, to be satisfied with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our fathers have sinned--they are not, We their iniquities have borne.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Servants have ruled over us, A deliverer there is none from their hand.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With our lives we bring in our bread, Because of the sword of the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Our skin as an oven hath been burning, Because of the raging of the famine.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wives in Zion they have humbled, Virgins--in cities of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Princes by their hand have been hanged, The faces of elders have not been honoured.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Young men to grind they have taken, And youths with wood have stumbled.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The aged from the gate have ceased, Young men from their song.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ceased hath the joy of our heart, Turned to mourning hath been our dancing.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Fallen hath the crown [from] our head, Woe [is] now to us, for we have sinned.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For this hath our heart been sick, For these have our eyes been dim.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the mount of Zion--that is desolate, Foxes have gone up on it.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou, O Jehovah, to the age remainest, Thy throne to generation and generation.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Why for ever dost Thou forget us? Thou forsakest us for length of days!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Turn us back, O Jehovah, unto Thee, And we turn back, renew our days as of old.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For hast Thou utterly rejected us? Thou hast been wroth against us-- exceedingly?</p>

</body>
</html>