<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I [am] the man [who] hath seen affliction By the rod of His wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Me He hath led, and causeth to go [in] darkness, and without light.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely against me He turneth back, He turneth His hand all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He hath worn out my flesh and my skin. He hath broken my bones.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He hath built up against me, And setteth round poverty and weariness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In dark places He hath caused me to dwell, As the dead of old.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He hath hedged me about, and I go not out, He hath made heavy my fetter.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Also when I call and cry out, He hath shut out my prayer.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He hath hedged my ways with hewn work, My paths He hath made crooked.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A bear lying in wait He [is] to me, A lion in secret hiding-places.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My ways He is turning aside, and He pulleth me in pieces, He hath made me a desolation.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He hath trodden His bow, And setteth me up as a mark for an arrow.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He hath caused to enter into my reins The sons of His quiver.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have been a derision to all my people, Their song all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He hath filled me with bitter things, He hath filled me [with] wormwood.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And He breaketh with gravel my teeth, He hath covered me with ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Thou castest off from peace my soul, I have forgotten prosperity.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I say, Perished hath my strength and my hope from Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Remember my affliction and my mourning, Wormwood and gall!</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Remember well, and bow down doth my soul in me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> This I turn to my heart--therefore I hope.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The kindnesses of Jehovah! For we have not been consumed, For not ended have His mercies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> New every morning, abundant [is] thy faithfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My portion [is] Jehovah, hath my soul said, Therefore I hope for Him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Good [is] Jehovah to those waiting for Him, To the soul [that] seeketh Him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Good! when one doth stay and stand still For the salvation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Good for a man that he beareth a yoke in his youth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He sitteth alone, and is silent, For He hath laid [it] upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He putteth in the dust his mouth, if so be there is hope.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He giveth to his smiter the cheek, He is filled with reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For the Lord doth not cast off to the age.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For though He afflicted, yet He hath pitied, According to the abundance of His kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For He hath not afflicted with His heart, Nor doth He grieve the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> To bruise under one's feet any bound ones of earth,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> To turn aside the judgment of a man, Over-against the face of the Most High,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> To subvert a man in his cause, the Lord hath not approved.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Who [is] this--he hath said, and it is, [And] the Lord hath not commanded [it]?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> From the mouth of the Most High Go not forth the evils and the good.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> What--sigh habitually doth a living man, A man for his sin?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> We search our ways, and investigate, And turn back unto Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> We lift up our heart on the hands unto God in the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> We--we have transgressed and rebelled, Thou--Thou hast not forgiven.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Thou hast covered Thyself with anger, And dost pursue us; Thou hast slain-- Thou hast not pitied.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Thou hast covered Thyself with a cloud, So that prayer doth not pass through.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Offscouring and refuse Thou dost make us In the midst of the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Opened against us their mouth have all our enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Fear and a snare hath been for us, Desolation and destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Rivulets of water go down my eye, For the destruction of the daughter of my people.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Mine eye is poured out, And doth not cease without intermission,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Till Jehovah looketh and seeth from the heavens,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> My eye affecteth my soul, Because of all the daughters of my city.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Hunted me sore as a bird have my enemies without cause.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> They have cut off in a pit my life, And they cast a stone against me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Flowed have waters over my head, I have said, I have been cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> I called Thy name, O Jehovah, from the lower pit.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> My voice Thou hast heard, Hide not Thine ear at my breathing--at my cry.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Thou hast drawn near in the day I call Thee, Thou hast said, Fear not.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Thou hast pleaded, O Lord, the pleadings of my soul, Thou hast redeemed my life.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> Thou hast seen, O Jehovah, my overthrow, Judge Thou my cause.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> Thou hast seen all their vengeance, All their thoughts of me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> Thou hast heard their reproach, O Jehovah, All their thoughts against me,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> The lips of my withstanders, Even their meditation against me all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> Their sitting down, and their rising up, Behold attentively, I [am] their song.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Thou returnest to them the deed, O Jehovah, According to the work of their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Thou givest to them a covered heart, Thy curse to them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> Thou pursuest in anger, and destroyest them, From under the heavens of Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>