<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> How is the gold become dim, Changed the best--the pure gold? Poured out are stones of the sanctuary At the head of all out-places.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The precious sons of Zion, Who are comparable with fine gold, How have they been reckoned earthen bottles, Work of the hands of a potter.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Even dragons have drawn out the breast, They have suckled their young ones, The daughter of my people is become cruel, Like the ostriches in a wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Cleaved hath the tongue of a suckling unto his palate with thirst, Infants asked bread, a dealer out they have none.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Those eating of dainties have been desolate in out-places, Those supported on scarlet have embraced dunghills.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And greater is the iniquity of the daughter of my people, Than the sin of Sodom, That was overturned as [in] a moment, And no hands were stayed on her.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Purer were her Nazarites than snow, Whiter than milk, ruddier of body than rubies, Of sapphire their form.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Darker than blackness hath been their visage, They have not been known in outplaces, Cleaved hath their skin unto their bone, It hath withered--it hath been as wood.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Better have been the pierced of a sword Than the pierced of famine, For these flow away, pierced through, Without the increase of the field.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The hands of merciful women have boiled their own children, They have been for food to them, In the destruction of the daughter of my people.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Completed hath Jehovah His fury, He hath poured out the fierceness of His anger, And he kindleth a fire in Zion, And it devoureth her foundations.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Believe not did the kings of earth, And any of the inhabitants of the world, That come would an adversary and enemy Into the gates of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Because of the sins of her prophets, The iniquities of her priests, Who are shedding in her midst the blood of the righteous,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They have wandered naked in out-places, They have been polluted with blood, Without [any] being able to touch their clothing,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `Turn aside--unclean,' they called to them, `Turn aside, turn aside, touch not,' For they fled--yea, they have wandered, They have said among nations: `They do not add to sojourn.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The face of Jehovah hath divided them, He doth not add to behold them, The face of priests they have not lifted up, Elders they have not favoured.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> While we exist--consumed are our eyes for our vain help, In our watch-tower we have watched for a nation [that] saveth not.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They have hunted our steps from going in our broad-places, Near hath been our end, fulfilled our days, For come hath our end.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Swifter have been our pursuers, Than the eagles of the heavens, On the mountains they have burned [after] us, In the wilderness they have laid wait for us.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The breath of our nostrils--the anointed of Jehovah, Hath been captured in their pits, of whom we said: `In his shadow we do live among nations.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Joy and rejoice, O daughter of Edom, Dwelling in the land of Uz, Even unto thee pass over doth a cup, Thou art drunk, and makest thyself naked.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Completed [is] thy iniquity, daughter of Zion, He doth not add to remove thee, He hath inspected thy iniquity, O daughter of Edom, He hath removed [thee] because of thy sins!</p>

</body>
</html>