<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass, in the eleventh year, in the first of the month, there hath been a word of Jehovah unto me, saying: `Son of man,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Because that Tyre hath said of Jerusalem: Aha, she hath been broken, the doors of the peoples, She hath turned round unto me, I am filled--she hath been laid waste,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Lo, I [am] against thee, O Tyre, And have caused to come up against thee many nations, As the sea causeth its billows to come up.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they have destroyed the walls of Tyre, And they have broken down her towers, And I have scraped her dust from her, And made her for a clear place of a rock.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A spreading place of nets she is in the midst of the sea, For I--I have spoken--an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, And she hath been for a spoil to nations.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And her daughters who [are] in the field, by sword they are slain, And they have known that I [am] Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Lo, I am bringing in unto Tyre Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, From the north--a king of kings, With horse, and with chariot, and with horsemen, Even an assembly, and a numerous people.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy daughters in the field by sword he slayeth, And he hath made against thee a fort, And hath poured out against thee a mount, And hath raised against thee a buckler.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And a battering-ram before him he placeth against thy walls, And thy towers he breaketh by his weapons.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> From the abundance of his horses cover thee doth their dust, From the noise of horseman, and wheel, and rider, Shake do thy walls, in his coming in to thy gates, As the coming into a city broken-up.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> With hoofs of his horses he treadeth all thine out-places, Thy people by sword he doth slay, And the pillars of thy strength to the earth come down.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they have spoiled thy wealth, And they have plundered thy merchandise, And they have thrown down thy walls, And thy desirable houses they break down, And thy stones, and thy wood, and thy dust, In the midst of the waters they place.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I have caused the noise of thy songs to cease, And the voice of thy harps is heard no more.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I have given thee up for a clear place of a rock, A spreading-place of nets thou art, Thou art not built up any more, For I, Jehovah, I have spoken, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah to Tyre: Do not--from the noise of thy fall, In the groaning of the wounded, In the slaying of the slaughter in thy midst, The isles shake?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And come down from off their thrones have all princes of the sea, And they have turned aside their robes, And their embroidered garments strip off, Trembling they put on, on the earth they sit, And they have trembled every moment, And they have been astonished at thee,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And have lifted up for thee a lamentation, And said to thee: How hast thou perished, That art inhabited from the seas, The praised city, that was strong in the sea, She and her inhabitants, Who put their terror on all her inhabitants!</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now they tremble, is it not the day of thy fall? Troubled have been the isles that [are] in the sea, at thine outgoing.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For thus said the Lord Jehovah: In my making thee a city wasted, Like cities that have not been inhabited, In bringing up against thee the deep, Then covered thee have the great waters.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And I have caused thee to go down, With those going down to the pit, Unto the people of old, And I have caused thee to dwell in the land, The lower parts--in wastes of old, With those going down to the pit, So that thou art not inhabited, And I have given beauty in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Wastes I do make thee, and thou art not, And thou art sought, and art not found any more--to the age, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah!'</p>

</body>
</html>