<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `And thou, son of man, take to thee a sharp weapon, the barber's razor thou dost take to thee, and thou hast caused [it] to pass over thy head, and over thy beard, and thou hast taken to thee weighing scales, and apportioned them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A third part with fire thou dost burn in the midst of the city, at the fulness of the days of the siege; and thou hast taken the third part, thou dost smite with a weapon round about it; and the third part thou dost scatter to the wind, and aweapon I draw out after them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou hast taken thence a few in number--and hast bound them in thy skirts;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and of them thou dost take again, and hast cast them unto the midst of the fire, and hast burned them in the fire--out of it cometh forth a fire unto all the house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: this [is] Jerusalem, In the midst of the nations I have set her, And round about her [are] the lands.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she changeth My judgments into wickedness more than the nations, And My statutes more than the lands that [are] round about her, For against My judgments they have kicked, And My statutes--they have not walked in them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because of your multiplying above the nations that [are] around you, In My statutes ye have not walked, And My judgments ye have not done, According to the judgments of the nations That [are] round aboutyou ye have not done.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Lo, I [am] against thee, even I, And I have done in thy midst judgments, Before the eyes of the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I have done in thee that which I have not done, And that which I do not its like again, Because of all thine abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore fathers do eat sons in thy midst, And sons eat their fathers, And I have done in thee judgments, And have scattered all thy remnant to every wind.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, I live--an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah: Because My sanctuary thou hast defiled, With all thy detestable things, And with all thine abominations, Mine eye pitieth not, and I also spare not. Do not even I also diminish?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thy third part--by pestilence they die, And by famine are consumed in thy midst, And the third part, by sword they fall round about thee, And the third part, to every wind I scatter, And a sword I draw out after them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And completed hath been Mine anger, And I have caused My fury to rest on them, And I have been comforted, And they have known that I, Jehovah, have spoken in My zeal, In My completing My fury on them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I give thee for a waste, And for a reproach among nations that [are] round about thee, Before the eyes of every passer by.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it hath been a reproach and a reviling, An instruction and an astonishment, To nations that [are] round about thee, In My doing in thee judgments, In anger and fury, and in furious reproofs, I, Jehovah, have spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In My sending the evil arrows of famine among them, That have been for destruction, That I send to destroy you, And famine I am adding upon you, And I have broken to you the staff of bread.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I have sent on you famine and evil beasts, And they have bereaved thee, And pestilence and blood pass over on thee, And a sword I do bring in against thee, I, Jehovah, have spoken!'</p>

</body>
</html>