<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Son of man, set thy face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and thou hast said to it: Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Lo, I [am] against thee, O mount Seir, And have stretched out My hand against thee, And made thee a desolation and an astonishment.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy cities a waste I make, and thou art a desolation, And thou hast known that I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Because of thy having an enmity age-during, And thou dost saw the sons of Israel, By the hands of the sword, In the time of their calamity, In the time of the iniquity of the end:</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, I live--an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, Surely for blood I do appoint thee, And blood doth pursue thee, If blood thou hast not hated, Blood also doth pursue thee.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I have given mount Seir for a desolation and an astonishment, And have cut off from it him who is passing over and him who is returning,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And filled his mountains with his wounded, Thy hills, and thy valleys, and all thy streams, The pierced of the sword fall into them.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Desolations age-during I make thee, And thy cities do not return, And ye have known that I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because of thy saying: The two nations and the two lands are mine, and we have possessed it, And Jehovah hath been there;</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, I live--an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, And I have done according to thine anger, And according to thine envy, With which thou hast wrought, Because of thy hatred against them, And I have been known among them when I judge thee.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou hast known that I--Jehovah, I have heard all thy despisings that thou hast spoken Against mountains of Israel, saying: A desolation, to us they were given for food.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And ye magnify yourselves against Me with your mouth, And have made abundant against Me your words, I--I have heard.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: According to the rejoicing of the whole land, A desolation I make of thee.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> According to thy joy at the inheritance of the house of Israel because of desolation, So I do to thee--a desolation thou art, O mount Seir, and all Edom--all of it, And they have known that I [am] Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>