<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it cometh to pass, in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, in the first of the month, hath a word of Jehovah been unto me, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Son of man, lift up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of Egypt, and thou hast said unto him: A young lion of nations thou hast been like, And thou [art] as a dragon in the seas, And thou comest forth with thy flowings, And dost trouble the waters with thy feet, And thou dost foul their flowings.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: And--I have spread out for thee My net, With an assembly of many peoples, And they have brought thee up in My net.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I have left thee in the land, On the face of the field I do cast thee out, And have caused to dwell upon thee every fowl of the heavens, And have satisfied out of thee the beasts of the whole earth.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I have put thy flesh on the mountains, And filled the valleys [with] thy hugeness,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And watered the land with thy flowing, From thy blood--unto the mountains, And streams are filled from thee.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And in quenching thee I have covered the heavens, And have made black their stars, The sun with a cloud I do cover, And the moon causeth not its light to shine.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All luminaries of light in the heavens, I make black over thee, And I have given darkness over thy land, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I have vexed the heart of many peoples, In My bringing in thy destruction among nations, Unto lands that thou hast not known.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I have made many peoples astonished at thee, And their kings are afraid at thee with trembling, In My brandishing My sword before their faces, And they have trembled every moment, Each for his life--in the day of thy fall.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For thus said the Lord Jehovah: A sword of the king of Babylon entereth thee,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By swords of the mighty I cause thy multitude to fall, The terrible of nations--all of them, And they have spoiled the excellency of Egypt, And destroyed hath been all her multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I have destroyed all her beasts, From beside many waters, And trouble them not doth a foot of man any more, Yea, the hoofs of beasts trouble them not.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then do I cause their waters to sink, And their rivers as oil I cause to go, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In My making the land of Egypt a desolation, And desolated hath been the land of its fulness, In My smiting all the inhabitants in it, And they have known that I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A lamentation it [is], and they have lamented her, Daughters of the nations do lament her, For Egypt, and for all her multitude, they lament her, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it cometh to pass, in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth of the month, hath a word of Jehovah been unto me, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `Son of man, Wail for the multitude of Egypt, And cause it to go down, It--and the daughters of honourable nations, Unto the earth--the lower parts, With those going down to the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Than whom hast thou been more pleasant? Go down, and be laid with the uncircumcised.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In the midst of the pierced of the sword they fall, [To] the sword she hath been given, They drew her out, and all her multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Speak to him do the gods of the mighty out of the midst of sheol, With his helpers-- they have gone down, They have lain with the uncircumcised, The pierced of the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There [is] Asshur, and all her assembly, Round about him [are] his graves, All of them [are] wounded, who are falling by sword,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whose graves are appointed in the sides of the pit, And her assembly is round about her grave, All of them wounded, falling by sword, Because they gave terror in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> There [is] Elam, and all her multitude, Round about [is] her grave, All of them wounded, who are falling by sword, Who have gone down uncircumcised unto the earth--the lower parts, Because they gave their terror in the land of the living, And they bear their shame with those going down to the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In the midst of the wounded they have appointed a bed for her with all her multitude, Round about him [are] her graves, All of them uncircumcised, pierced of the sword, For their terror was given in the land of the living, And they bear their shame with those going down to the pit, In the midst of the pierced he hath been put.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There [is] Meshech, Tubal, and all her multitude, Round about him [are] her graves, All of them uncircumcised, pierced of the sword, For they gave their terror in the land of the living,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they lie not with the mighty, Who are falling of the uncircumcised, Who have gone down to sheol with their weapons of war, And they put their swords under their heads, And their iniquities are on their bones, For the terror of the mighty [is] in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And thou, in the midst of the uncircumcised art broken, And dost lie with the pierced of the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> There [is] Edom, her kings, and all her princes, Who have been given up in their might, With the pierced of the sword, They with the uncircumcised do lie, And with those going down to the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> There [are] princes of the north, All of them, and every Zidonian, Who have gone down with the pierced in their terror, Of their might they are ashamed, And they lie uncircumcised with the pierced of the sword, And they bear their shame with those going down to the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then doth Pharaoh see, And he hath been comforted for all his multitude, The pierced of the sword--Pharaoh and all his force, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For I have given his terror in the land of the living, And he hath been laid down in the midst of the uncircumcised, With the pierced of the sword--Pharaoh, and all his multitude, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah!'</p>

</body>
</html>