<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `What--to you, ye--using this simile Concerning the ground of Israel, saying: Fathers do eat unripe fruit, And the sons' teeth are blunted?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I live--an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, Ye have no more the use of this simile in Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lo, all the souls are Mine, As the soul of the father, So also the soul of the son--they are Mine, The soul that is sinning--it doth die.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And a man, when he is righteous, And hath done judgment and righteousness,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> On the mountains he hath not eaten, And his eyes he hath not lifted up Unto idols of the house of Israel, And the wife of his neighbour defiled not, And to a separated woman cometh not near,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A man--he doth not oppress, His pledge to the debtor he doth return, Plunder he doth not take away, His bread to the hungry he doth give, And the naked doth cover with a garment,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In usury he doth not give, and increase taketh not, From perversity he turneth back his hand, True judgment he doth between man and man.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In My statutes he doth walk, And My judgments he hath kept--to deal truly, Righteous [is] he, he surely liveth, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And--he hath begotten a son, A burglar--a shedder of blood, And he hath made a brother of one of these,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he all those hath not done, For even on the mountains he hath eaten, And the wife of his neighbour he hath defiled,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The afflicted and needy he hath oppressed, Plunder he hath taken violently away, A pledge he doth not return, And unto the idols he hath lifted up his eyes, Abomination he hath done!</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In usury he hath given, and increase taken, And he liveth: he doth not live, All these abominations he hath done, He doth surely die, his blood is on him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And--lo, he hath begotten a son, And he seeth all the sins of his father, That he hath done, and he feareth, And doth not do like them,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> On the mountains he hath not eaten, And his eyes he hath not lifted up Unto idols of the house of Israel, The wife of his neighbour he hath not defiled,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A man--he hath not oppressed, A pledge he hath not bound, And plunder he hath not taken away, His bread to the hungry he hath given, And the naked he covered with a garment,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> From the afflicted he hath turned back his hand, Usury and increase he hath not taken, My judgments he hath done, In My statutes he hath walked, He doth not die for the iniquity of his father, He doth surely live.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His father--because he used oppression, Did violently Plunder a brother, And that which [is] not good did in the midst of his people, And lo, he is dying in his iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And ye have said, Wherefore hath not the son, Borne of the iniquity of the father? And--the son judgment and righteousness hath done, All My statutes he hath kept, And he doeth them, he surely liveth.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The soul that doth sin--it doth die. A son doth not bear of the iniquity of the father, And a father doth not bear of the iniquity of the son, The righteousness of the righteous is on him, And the wickedness of the wicked is on him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the wicked--when he turneth back From all his sins that he hath done, And he hath kept all My statutes, And hath done judgment and righteousness, He doth surely live, he doth not die.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> All his transgressions that he hath done Are not remembered to him, In his righteousness that he hath done he liveth.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Do I at all desire the death of the wicked? An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, Is it not in his turning back from his way--And he hath lived?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And in the turning back of the righteous from his righteousness, And he hath done perversity, According to all the abominations That the wicked hath done, he doth--thus he liveth, All his righteousnesses that he hath done are not remembered, For his trespass that he hath trespassed, And for his sin that he hath sinned, For them he doth die.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And ye have said, Not pondered is the way of the Lord. Hear, I pray you, O house of Israel, My way--is it not pondered? Are not your ways unpondered?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In the turning back of the righteous from his righteousness, And he hath done perversity, And he is dying by them, for his perversity That he hath done he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And in the turning back of the wicked From his wickedness that he hath done, And he doth judgment and righteousness, He his soul doth keep alive.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he seeth and turneth back, From all his transgressions that he hath done, He doth surely live, he doth not die,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the house of Israel have said, Not pondered is the way of the Lord, My ways-- are they not pondered? O house of Israel--are not your ways unpondered?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore, each according to his ways I judge you, O house of Israel? An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, Turn ye back, yea, turn yourselves back, From all your transgressions, And iniquity is not to you for a stumbling-block,</p>

<p><a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Cast from off you all your transgressions, By which ye have transgressed, And make to you a new heart, and a new spirit, And why do ye die, O house of Israel?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For I have no pleasure in the death of the dying, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, And turn ye back and live!</p>

</body>
</html>