<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I look, and lo, on the expanse that [is] above the head of the cherubs, as a sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne, He hath been seen over them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And He speaketh unto the man clothed with linen, and saith, `Go in unto the midst of the wheel, unto the place of the cherub, and fill thy hands with coals of fire from between the cherubs, and scatter over the city.' And he goeth in before mine eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the cherubs are standing on the right side of the house, at the going in of the man, and the cloud hath filled the inner court,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and become high doth the honour of Jehovah above the cherub, over the threshold of the house, and the house is filled with the cloud, and the court hath been filled with the brightness of the honour of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And a noise of the wings of the cherubs hath been heard unto the outer court, as the voice of God--the Mighty One--in His speaking.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it cometh to pass, in His commanding the man clothed with linen, saying, `Take fire from between the wheel, from between the cherubs,' and he goeth in and standeth near the wheel,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> that the [one] cherub putteth forth his hand from between the cherubs unto the fire that [is] between the cherubs, and lifteth up, and giveth into the hands of him who is clothed with linen, and he receiveth, and cometh forth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there appeareth in the cherubs the form of a hand of man under their wings,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and I look, and lo, four wheels near the cherubs, one wheel near the one cherub, and another wheel near the other cherub, and the appearance of the wheels [is] as the colour of a beryl stone.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As to their appearances, one likeness [is] to them four, as it were the wheel in the midst of the wheel.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In their going, on their four sides they go; they turn not round in their going, for to the place whither the head turneth, after it they go, they turn not round in their going.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And all their flesh, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels, are full of eyes round about; to them four [are] their wheels.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> To the wheels--to them is one calling in mine ears, `O wheel!'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And four faces [are] to each; the face of the one [is] the face of the cherub, and the face of the second the face of man, and of the third the face of a lion, and of the fourth the face of an eagle.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the cherubs are lifted up, it [is] the living creature that I saw by the river Chebar.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And in the going of the cherubs, the wheels go beside them; and in the cherubs lifting up their wings to be high above the earth, the wheels turn not round, even they, from being beside them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In their standing they stand, and in their exaltation they are exalted with them: for the living spirit [is] in them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And go forth doth the honour of Jehovah from off the threshold of the house, and standeth over the cherubs,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the cherubs lift up their wings, and are lifted up from the earth before mine eyes; in their going forth, the wheels also [are] over-against them, and he standeth at the opening of the east gate of the house of Jehovah, and the honour of the God of Israel [is] over them from above.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> It [is] the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river Chebar, and I know that they are cherubs.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Four faces [are] to each, and four wings to each, and the likeness of the hands of man [is] under their wings.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> As to the likeness of their faces, they [are] the faces that I saw by the river Chebar, their appearances and themselves; each straight forward they go.</p>

</body>
</html>