<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `And thou, son of man, lift up concerning Tyre a lamentation, and thou hast said to Tyre:</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O dweller on the entrances of the sea, Merchant of the peoples unto many isles, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: O Tyre, thou--thou hast said: I [am] the perfection of beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In the heart of the seas [are] thy borders, Thy builders have perfected thy beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Of firs of Senir they have built to thee all thy double-boarded ships, Of cedars of Lebanon they have taken to make a mast for thee,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Of oaks of Bashan they made thine oars, Thy bench they have made of ivory, A branch of Ashurim from isles of Chittim.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Of fine linen with embroidery from Egypt hath been thy sail, To be to thee for an ensign, Of blue and purple from isles of Elishah hath been thy covering.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad have been rowers to thee, Thy wise men, O Tyre, have been in thee, They [are] thy pilots.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Elders of Gebal and its wise men have been in thee, Strengthening thy breach; All ships of the sea and their mariners, Have been in thee, to trade [with] thy merchandise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Persian and Lud and Phut Have been in thy forces--thy men of war. Shield and helmet they hung up in thee, They--they have given out thine honour.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The sons of Arvad, and thy force, [Are] on thy walls round about, And short swordsmen in thy towers have been, Their shields they have hung up on thy walls round about, They--they have perfected thy beauty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Tarshish [is] thy merchant, Because of the abundance of all wealth, For silver, iron, tin, and lead, They have given out thy remnants.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Javan, Tubal, and Meshech--they [are] thy merchants, For persons of men, and vessels of brass, They have given out thy merchandise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They of the house of Togarmah, [For] horses, and riding steeds, and mules, They have given out thy remnants.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Sons of Dedan [are] thy merchants, Many isles [are] the mart of thy hand, Horns of ivory and ebony they sent back thy reward.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Aram [is] thy merchant, Because of the abundance of thy works, For emerald, purple, and embroidery, And fine linen, and coral, and agate, They have given out thy remnants.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Judah and the land of Israel--they [are] thy merchants, For wheat of Minnith, and Pannag, And honey, and oil, and balm, They have given out thy merchandise.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Damascus [is] thy merchant, For the abundance of thy works, Because of the abundance of all wealth, For wine of Helbon, and white wool.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Vedan and Javan go about with thy remnants, They have given shining iron, cassia, and cane, In thy merchandise it hath been.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Dedan [is] thy merchant, For clothes of freedom for riding.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Arabia, and all princes of Kedar, They [are] the traders of thy hand, For lambs, and rams, and he-goats, In these thy merchants.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Merchants of Sheba and Raamah--they [are] thy merchants, For the chief of all spices, And for every precious stone, and gold, They have given out thy remnants.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Haran, and Canneh, and Eden, merchants of Sheba, Asshur--Chilmad--[are] thy merchants,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They [are] thy merchants for perfect things, For wrappings of blue, and embroidery, And for treasuries of rich apparel, With cords bound and girded, for thy merchandise,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Ships of Tarshish [are] thy double walls of thy merchandise, And thou art filled and honoured greatly, In the heart of the seas.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Into great waters have they brought thee, Those rowing thee, The east wind hath broken thee in the heart of the seas.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thy wealth and thy remnants, Thy merchandise, thy mariners, And thy pilots, strengtheners of thy breach, And the traders of thy merchandise, And all thy men of war, who [are] in thee, And in all thine assembly that [is] in thy midst, Fall into the heart of the seas in the day of thy fall,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> At the voice of the cry of thy pilots shake do the suburbs.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And come down from their ships have all handling an oar, Mariners, all the pilots of the sea, on the land they stand,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And have sounded for thee with their voice, And cry bitterly, and cause dust to go up on their heads, In ashes they do roll themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they have made for thee baldness, And they have girded on sackcloth, And they have wept for thee, In bitterness of soul--a bitter mourning.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And lifted up for thee have their sons a lamentation, And they have lamented over thee, who [is] as Tyre? As the cut-off one in the midst of the sea?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> With the outgoing of thy remnants from the seas, Thou hast filled many peoples, With the abundance of thy riches, and thy merchandise, Thou hast made rich things of earth.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The time of [thy] being broken by the seas in the depths of the waters, Thy merchandise and all thy assembly in thy midst have fallen.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> All inhabitants of the isles have been astonished at thee, And their kings have been sore afraid, They have been troubled in countenance.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Merchants among the peoples have shrieked for thee, Wastes thou hast been, and thou art not--to the age!'</p>

</body>
</html>