<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying, `And thou, son of man, Thus said the Lord Jehovah to the ground of Israel:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> An end, come hath the end on the four corners of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now [is] the end unto thee, And I have sent Mine anger upon thee, And judged thee according to thy ways, And set against thee all thine abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And no pity on thee hath Mine eye, nor do I spare, For thy ways against thee I do set, And thine abominations are in thy midst, And ye have known that I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Evil, a single evil, lo, it hath come.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> An end hath come, come hath the end, It hath waked for thee, lo, it hath come.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Come hath the morning unto thee, O inhabitant of the land! Come hath the time, near [is] a day of trouble, And not the shouting of mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now, shortly I pour out My fury on thee, And have completed Mine anger against thee, And judged thee according to thy ways, And set against thee all thine abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And not pity doth Mine eye, nor do I spare, According to thy ways unto thee I give, And thine abominations are in thy midst, And ye have known that I [am] Jehovah the smiter.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lo, the day, lo, it hath come, Gone forth hath the morning, Blossomed hath the rod, flourished the pride.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The violence hath risen to a rod of wickedness, There is none of them, nor of their multitude, Nor of their noise, nor is there wailing for them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Come hath the time, arrived hath the day, The buyer doth not rejoice, And the seller doth not become a mourner, For wrath [is] unto all its multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For the seller to the sold thing turneth not, And yet among the living [is] their life, For the vision [is] unto all its multitude, It doth not turn back, And none by his iniquity doth strengthen his life.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They have blown with a trumpet to prepare the whole, And none is going to battle, For My wrath [is] unto all its multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sword [is] without, And the pestilence and the famine within, He who is in a field by sword dieth, And he who is in a city, Famine and pestilence devour him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And escaped away have their fugitives, And they have been on the mountains As doves of the valleys, All of them make a noising--each for his iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the hands are feeble, and all knees go--waters.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they have girded on sackcloth, And covered them hath trembling, And unto all faces [is] shame, And on all their heads--baldness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Their silver into out-places they cast, And their gold impurity becometh. Their silver and their gold is not able to deliver them, In a day of the wrath of Jehovah, Their soul they do not satisfy, And their bowels they do not fill, For the stumbling-block of their iniquity it hath been.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> As to the beauty of his ornament, For excellency He set it, And the images of their abominations, Their detestable things--they made in it, Therefore I have given it to them for impurity,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I have given it into the hand of the strangers for a prey, And to the wicked of the land for a spoil, And they have polluted it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I have turned My face from them, And they have polluted My hidden place, Yea, come into it have destroyers, and polluted it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Make the chain; for the land Hath been full of bloody judgments, And the city hath been full of violence.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I have brought in the wicked of the nations, And they have possessed their houses, And I have caused to cease the excellency of the strong, And polluted have been those sanctifying them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Destruction hath come, And they have sought peace, and there is none.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Mischief on mischief cometh, and report is on report, And they have sought a vision from a prophet, And law doth perish from the priest, And counsel from the elders,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The king doth become a mourner, And a prince putteth on desolation, And the hands of the people of the land are troubled, From their own way I deal with them, And with their own judgments I judge them, And they have known that I [am] Jehovah!'</p>

</body>
</html>