<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he bringeth me in unto the temple, and he measureth the posts, six cubits the breadth on this side, and six cubits the breadth on that side--the breadth of the tent.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the breadth of the opening [is] ten cubits; and the sides of the opening [are] five cubits on this side, and five cubits on that side; and he measureth its length forty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he hath gone inward, and measureth the post of the opening two cubits, and the opening six cubits, and the breadth of the opening seven cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he measureth its length twenty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits, unto the front of the temple, and he saith unto me, `This [is] the holy of holies.'</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he measureth the wall of the house six cubits, and the breadth of the sidechamber four cubits, all round the house round about.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the side-chambers [are] side-chamber by side-chamber, three and thirty times; and they are entering into the wall--which the house hath for the side-chambers all round about--to be taken hold of, and they are not taken hold of by the wall of the house.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And a broad place and a turning place still upwards [are] to the side-chambers, for the turning round of the house [is] still upwards all round about the house: therefore the breadth of the house [is] upwards, and so the lower one goeth up unto the higher by the midst.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I have looked at the house, the height all round about: the foundations of the side-chambers [are] the fulness of the reed, six cubits by the joining.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The breadth of the wall that [is] to the side-chamber at the outside [is] five cubits; and that which is left [is] the place of the side-chambers that [are] to the house.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And between the chambers [is] a breadth of twenty cubits round about the house, all round about.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the opening of the side-chamber [is] to the place left, one opening northward, and one opening southward, and the breadth of the place that is left [is] five cubits all round about.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As to the building that [is] at the front of the separate place [at] the corner westward, the breadth [is] seventy cubits, and the wall of the building five cubits broad all round about, and its length ninety cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he hath measured the house, the length [is] a hundred cubits; and the separate place, and the building, and its walls, the length [is] a hundred cubits;</p>

<p><a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the breadth of the front of the house, and of the separate place eastward, a hundred cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he hath measured the length of the building unto the front of the separate place that [is] at its hinder part, and its galleries on this side and on that side, a hundred cubits, and the inner temple and the porches of the court,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> the thresholds, and the narrow windows, and the galleries round about them three, over-against the threshold, a ceiling of wood all round about, and the ground unto the windows and the covered windows,</p>

<p><a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> over above the opening, and unto the inner-house, and at the outside, and by all the wall all round about within and without [by] measure.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it is made [with] cherubs and palm-trees, and a palm-tree [is] between cherub and cherub, and two faces [are] to the cherub;</p>

<p><a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the face of man [is] unto the palm-tree on this side, and the face of a young lion unto the palm-tree on that side; it is made unto all the house all round about.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> from the earth unto above the opening [are] the cherubs and the palm-trees made, and [on] the wall of the temple.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Of the temple the side post [is] square, and of the front of the sanctuary, the appearance [is] as the appearance.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Of the altar, the wood [is] three cubits in height, and its length two cubits; and its corners [are] to it, and its length, and its walls [are] of wood, and he speaketh unto me, `This [is] the table that [is] before Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And two doors [are] to the temple and to the sanctuary;</p>

<p><a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and two leaves [are] to the doors, two turning leaves [are] to the doors, two to the one door, and two leaves to the other.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And made on them, on the doors of the temple, [are] cherubs and palm-trees as are made on the walls, and a thickness of wood [is] at the front of the porch on the outside.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And narrow windows and palm-trees [are] on this side, and on that side, at the sides of the porch, and the side-chambers of the house, and the thick places.</p>

</body>
</html>