<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Son of man, prophesy concerning the prophets of Israel who are prophesying, and thou hast said to those prophesying from their own heart: Hear ye a word of Jehovah:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Woe unto the prophets who are foolish, Who are going after their own spirit, And they have seen nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As foxes in the wastes, Thy prophets, O Israel, have been.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ye have not gone up into breaches, Nor do ye make a fence for the house of Israel, To stand in battle in a day of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They have seen vanity, and lying divination, Who are saying: An affirmation of Jehovah, And Jehovah hath not sent them, And they have hoped to establish a word.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A vain vision have ye not seen, And a lying divination spoken, When ye say: An affirmation of Jehovah, And I have not spoken?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because ye have spoken vanity, and seen a lie, Therefore, lo, I [am] against you, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And My hand hath been on the prophets, Who are seeing vanity, and who are divining a lie, In the assembly of My people they are not, And in the writing of the house of Israel they are not written, And unto the ground of Israel they come not,And ye have known that I [am] the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because, even because, they did cause My people to err, Saying, Peace! and there is no peace, And that one is building a wall, And lo, they are daubing it with chalk.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Say to those daubing with chalk--It falleth, There hath been an overflowing shower, And ye, O hailstones, do fall, And a tempestuous wind doth rend,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And lo, fallen hath the wall! Doth not one say unto you, Where [is] the daubing that ye daubed?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: I have rent with a tempestuous wind in My fury, And an overflowing shower is in Mine anger, And hailstones in My fury--to consume.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I have broken down the wall that ye daubed with chalk, And have caused it to come unto the earth, And revealed hath been its foundation, And it hath fallen, And ye have been consumed in its midst, And ye have known that I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I have completed My wrath on the wall, And on those daubing it with chalk, And I say to you: The wall is not, And those daubing it are not;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The prophets of Israel who are prophesying concerning Jerusalem, And who are seeing for her a vision of peace, And there is no peace, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And thou, son of man, set thy face against the daughters of thy people, who are prophesying out of their own heart, and prophesy concerning them,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And thou hast said: Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Woe to those sowing pillows for all joints of the arm, And to those making the kerchiefs For the head of every stature--to hunt souls, The souls do ye hunt of My people? And the souls ye have do ye keep alive?</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yea, ye pierce Me concerning My people, For handfuls of barley, And for pieces of bread, to put to death Souls that should not die, And to keep alive souls that should not live, By your lying to My people--hearkening to lies.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Lo, I [am] against your pillows, With which ye are hunting there the souls of the flourishing, And I have rent them from off your arms, And have sent away the souls that ye are hunting, The souls of the flourishing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I have torn your kerchiefs, And delivered My people out of your hand, And they are no more in your hand for a prey, And ye have known that I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Because of paining the heart of the righteous with falsehood, And I have not pained it, And strengthening the hands of the wicked, So as not to turn back from his evil way, To keep him alive,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore, vanity ye do not see, And divination ye do not divine again, And I have delivered My people out of your hand, And ye have known that I [am] Jehovah!'</p>

</body>
</html>