<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Son of man, set thy face unto Jerusalem, and prophesy unto the holy places, and prophesy unto the ground of Israel;</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and thou hast said unto the ground of Israel: Thus said Jehovah: Lo, I [am] against thee, And have brought out My sword from its scabbard, And have cut off from thee righteous and wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because that I have cut off from thee righteous and wicked, Therefore go out doth My sword from its scabbard, Unto all flesh, from south to north.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And known have all flesh that I, Jehovah, Have brought out My sword from its scabbard, It doth not turn back any more.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou, son of man, sigh with breaking of loins, yea, with bitterness thou dost sigh before their eyes,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and it hath come to pass, when they say unto thee, For what art thou sighing? that thou hast said: Because of the report, for it is coming, And melted hath every heart, And feeble hath been all hands, And weak is every spirit, And all knees go--waters, Lo, it is coming, yea, it hath been, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `Son of man, prophesy, and thou hast said, Thus said Jehovah, say: A sword, a sword is sharpened, and also polished.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So as to slaughter a slaughter it is sharpened. So as to have brightness it is polished, Desire hath rejoiced the sceptre of my son, It is despising every tree.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he giveth it for polishing, For laying hold of by the hand. It is sharpened--the sword--and polished, To give it into the hand of a slayer.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Cry and howl, son of man, For it hath been among My people, It [is] among all the princes of Israel, Cast unto the sword have been My people. Therefore strike on thy thigh,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Because [it is] a trier, And what if even the sceptre it is despising? It shall not be, an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And thou, son of man, prophesy, And smite hand on hand, And bent is the sword a third time, The sword of the wounded! It [is] the sword of the wounded--the great one, That is entering the inner chamber to them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To melt the heart, and to multiply the ruins, By all their gates I have set the point of a sword. Ah, it is made for brightness, Wrapped up for slaughter.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Take possession of the right, place thyself at the left, Whither thy face is appointed.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I also, I smite My hand on my hand, And have caused My fury to rest; I, Jehovah, have spoken.'</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> `And thou, son of man, appoint for thee two ways, for the coming in of the sword of the king of Babylon; from one land they come forth, both of them, and a station prepare thou, at the top of the way of the city prepare [it].</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A way appoint for the coming of the sword, Unto Rabbath of the sons of Ammon, And to Judah, in Jerusalem--the fenced.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For stood hath the king of Babylon at the head of the way, At the top of the two ways, to use divination, He hath moved lightly with the arrows, He hath asked at the teraphim, He hath looked on the liver.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At his right hath been the divination--Jerusalem, To place battering-rams, To open the mouth with slaughter, To lift up a voice with shouting, To place battering-rams against the gates, To pour out a mount, to build a fortification.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And it hath been to them as a false divination in their eyes, Who have sworn oaths to them, And he is causing iniquity to be remembered to be caught.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because of your causing your iniquity to be remembered, In your transgressions being revealed, For your sins being seen, in all your doings, Because of your being remembered, By the hand ye are caught.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And thou, wounded, wicked one, Prince of Israel, whose day hath come, In the time of the iniquity of the end!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Turn aside the mitre, and bear away the crown, This-- not this--the low make high, And the high make low.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> An overturn, overturn, overturn, I make it, Also this hath not been till the coming of Him, Whose [is] the judgment, and I have given it.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And thou, son of man, prophesy, and thou hast said: Thus said the Lord Jehovah concerning the sons of Ammon, and concerning their reproach: and thou hast said: A sword, a sword, open for slaughter, Polished to the utmost for brightness!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> In the seeing for thee of a vain thing, In the divining for thee of a lie, To put thee on the necks of the wounded of the wicked, whose day hath come, In the time of the iniquity of the end.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Turn [it] back unto its scabbard, In the place where thou wast produced, In the land of thy birth I do judge thee.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And I have poured on thee Mine indignation, With fire of My wrath I blow against thee, And have given thee into the hand of brutish men--artificers of destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> To the fire thou art for fuel, Thy blood is in the midst of the land, Thou art not remembered, For I, Jehovah, have spoken!'</p>

</body>
</html>