<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And thou, son of man, prophesy unto mountains of Israel, and thou hast said, O mountains of Israel, hear a word of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because the enemy said against you, Aha, and the high places of old for a possession have been to us,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> therefore, prophesy, and thou hast said: Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because, even because, of desolating, And of swallowing you up from round about, For your being a possession to the remnant of the nations, And ye are taken up on the tip of the tongue, And [are] an evil report of the people.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, O mountains of Israel, Hear a word of the Lord Jehovah: Thus said the Lord Jehovah, to mountains, and to hills, To streams, and to valleys, And to wastes that [are] desolate, And to cities that are forsaken, That have been for a prey, And for a scorn, to the remnant of the nations who [are] round about.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Have I not, in the fire of My jealousy, Spoken against the remnant of the nations, And against Edom--all of it, Who gave My land to themselves for a possession, With the joy of the whole heart--with despite of soul, For the sake of casting it out for a prey?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, prophesy concerning the ground of Israel, And thou hast said to mountains, and to hills, To streams, and to valleys, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Lo, I, in My jealousy, and in My fury, I have spoken, Because the shame of nations yehave borne.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: I--I have lifted up My hand, Do not--the nations who [are] with you from round about--they their own shame bear?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And ye, O mountains of Israel, Your branch ye give out, and your fruits ye bear for My people Israel, For they have drawn near to come.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, lo, I [am] for you, and have turned to you, And ye have been tilled and sown.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I have multiplied on you men, All the house of Israel--all of it, And the cities have been inhabited, And the wastes are built.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I have multiplied on you man and beast, And they have multiplied and been fruitful, And I have caused you to dwell according to your former states, And I have done better than at your beginnings, And ye have known that I [am] Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I have caused man to walk over you, --My people Israel, And they possess thee, and thou hast been to them for an inheritance, And thou dost add no more to bereave them.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because they are saying to you: A devourer of men [art] thou, And a bereaver of thy nations thou hast been,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, man thou devourest no more, And thy nations thou causest not to stumble any more, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I proclaim not unto thee any more the shame of the nations, And the reproach of peoples thou bearest no more, And thy nations stumble not any more, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `Son of man, The house of Israel are dwelling on their land, And they defile it by their way and by their doings, As the uncleanness of a separated one hath their way been before Me.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I do pour out My fury upon them For the blood that they shed on the land, And with their idols they have defiled it.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I scatter them among nations, And they are spread through lands, According to their way, and according to their doings, I have judged them.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And one goeth in unto the nations whither they have gone, And they pollute My holy name by saying to them, The people of Jehovah [are] these, And from His land they have gone forth.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I have pity on My holy name, That the house of Israel have polluted among nations whither they have gone in.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore, say to the house of Israel, Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Not for your sake am I working, O house of Israel, But--for My holy name, That ye have polluted among nations whither ye have gone in.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I have sanctified My great name, That is profaned among nations, That ye have polluted in your midst, And known have the nations that I [am] Jehovah, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, In My being sanctified in you before your eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And I have taken you out of the nations, And have gathered you out of all the lands, And I have brought you in unto your land,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I have sprinkled over you clean water, And ye have been clean; From all your uncleannesses, and from all your idols, I do cleanse you.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I have given to you a new heart, And a new spirit I give in your midst, And I have turned aside the heart of stone out of your flesh, And I have given to you a heart of flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And My Spirit I give in your midst, And I have done this, so that in My statutes ye walk, And My judgments ye keep, and have done them.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And ye have dwelt in the land that I have given to your fathers, And ye have been to Me for a people, And I--I am to you for God.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I have saved you from all your uncleannesses, And I have called unto the corn, and multiplied it, And I have put no famine upon you.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And I have multiplied the fruit of the tree, And the increase of the field, So that ye receive not any more a reproach of famine among nations.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And ye have remembered your ways that [are] evil, And your doings that [are] not good, And have been loathsome in your own faces, For your iniquities, and for your abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Not for your sake am I working, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, Be it known to you, Be ashamed and confounded, because of your ways, O house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: In the day of My cleansing you from all your iniquities, I have caused the cities to be inhabited, And the wastes have been built,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the desolate land is tilled, Instead of which it was a desolation before the eyes of every passer by,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they have said: This land, that was desolated, Hath been as the garden of Eden, And the cities--the wasted, And the desolated, and the broken down, Fenced places have remained.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And known have the nations who are left round about you, That I Jehovah have built the thrown down, I have planted the desolated: I Jehovah have spoken, and I have done [it].</p>

<p><a id="c36_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Yet this I am required, By the house of Israel to do to them, I multiply them as a flock of men,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> As a flock of holy ones, as a flock of Jerusalem, In her appointed seasons, So are the waste cities full of flocks of men, And they have known that I [am] Jehovah!'</p>

</body>
</html>