<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he bringeth me forth unto the outer court, the way northward, and he bringeth me in unto the chamber that [is] over-against the separate place, and that [is] over-against the building at the north.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> At the front of the length [is] a hundred cubits [at] the north opening, and the breadth fifty cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Over-against the twenty [cubits] that are to the inner court, and over-against the pavement that [is] to the outer court, [is] gallery over-against gallery, in the three [storeys].</p>

<p><a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And at the front of the chambers [is] a walk of ten cubits in breadth unto the inner part, a way of one cubit, and their openings [are] at the north.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the upper chambers [are] short, for the galleries contain more than these, than the lower, and than the middle one, of the building;</p>

<p><a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for they [are] threefold, and they have no pillars as the pillars of the court, therefore it hath been kept back--more than the lower and than the middle one--from the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As to the wall that [is] at the outside, over-against the chambers, the way of the outercourt at the front of the chambers, its length [is] fifty cubits;</p>

<p><a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for the length of the chambers that [are] to the outer court [is] fifty cubits, and of those on the front of the temple a hundred cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And under these chambers [is] the entrance from the east, in one's going into them from the outer court.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In the breadth of the wall of the court eastward, unto the front of the separate place, and unto the front of the building, [are] chambers.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the way before them [is] as the appearance of the chambers that [are] northward, according to their length so [is] their breadth, and all their outlets, and according to their fashions, and according to their openings.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And according to the openings of the chambers that [are] southward [is] an opening at the head of the way, the way directly in the front of the wall eastward in entering them.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he saith unto me, `The north chambers, the south chambers, that [are] at the front of the separate place, they [are] holy chambers, where the priests (who [are] near to Jehovah) eat the most holy things, there they place the most holy things, and the present, and the sin-offering, and the guilt-offering, for the place [is] holy.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In the priests' going in, they come not out from the sanctuary unto the outer court, and there they place their garments with which they minister, for they [are] holy, and have put on other garments, and have drawn near unto that which [is]for the people.'</p>

<p><a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he hath finished the measurements of the inner house, and hath brought me forth the way of the gate whose front [is] eastward, and he hath measured it all round about.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He hath measured the east side with the measuring-reed, five hundred reeds, with the measuring-reed round about.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He hath measured the north side, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed round about.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The south side he hath measured, five hundred reeds, with the measuring-reed.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He hath turned round unto the west side, he hath measured five hundred reeds with the measuring-reed.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> At the four sides he hath measured it, a wall [is] to it all round about, the length five hundred, and the breadth five hundred, to separate between the holy and the profane place.</p>

</body>
</html>