<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 44</h2>

<p><a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he causeth me to turn back the way of the gate of the outer sanctuary that is looking eastward, and it is shut.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jehovah saith unto me, `This gate is shut, it is not opened, and none doth go in by it, for Jehovah, God of Israel, hath come in by it, and it hath been shut.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The prince, who [is] prince, he sitteth by it to eat bread before Jehovah, by the way of the porch of the gate he cometh in, and by its way he goeth out.'</p>

<p><a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he bringeth me in the way of the north gate unto the front of the house, and I look, and lo, filled hath the honour of Jehovah the house of Jehovah, and I fall on my face.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah saith unto me, `Son of man, set thy heart, and see with thine eyes, and with thine ears hear, all that I am speaking with thee, of all the statutes of the house of Jehovah, and of all its laws; and thou hast set thy heart to the entrance of the house, with all the outlets of the sanctuary,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and hast said unto the rebellious, unto the house of Israel: Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Enough to you--of all your abominations, O house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In your bringing in sons of a stranger, uncircumcised of heart, and uncircumcised of flesh, to be in My sanctuary, to pollute it, even My house, in your bringing near My bread, fat, and blood, and they break My covenant by all your abominations,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and ye have not kept the charge of My holy things, and ye set [them] for keepers of My charge in My sanctuary for you.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `Thus said the Lord Jehovah: No son of a stranger, uncircumcised of heart, and uncircumcised of flesh, cometh in unto My sanctuary, even any son of a stranger, who [is] in the midst of the sons of Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but--the Levites who have gone far off from me, in the wandering of Israel when they went astray from Me after their idols, and they have borne their iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they have been in My sanctuary ministrants, overseers at the gates of the house, and ministrants at the house; they slay the burnt-offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they stand before them to serve them.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because that they serve them before their idols, and have been to the house of Israel for a stumbling-block of iniquity, therefore I have lifted up my hand against them--an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah--and they have borne their iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they draw not nigh unto Me to act as My priest, and to draw nigh unto any of My holy things, unto the holy of holies, and they have borne their shame and their abominations that they have done,</p>

<p><a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and I made them keepers of the charge of the house, for all its service and for all that is done in it.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `And the priests, the Levites, sons of Zadok, who have kept the charge of My sanctuary in the wandering of the sons of Israel from off Me, they draw near unto Me to serve Me, and have stood before Me, to bring near to Me fat and blood--an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah:</p>

<p><a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> they come in unto My sanctuary, and they draw near unto My table to serve Me, and they have kept My charge.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it hath come to pass, in their going in unto the gates of the inner court, linen garments they put on; and no wool cometh up on them in their ministering in the gates of the inner court and within.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Linen bonnets are on their head, and linen trousers are on their loins, they are not restrained with sweat.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And in their going forth unto the outer court--unto the outer court unto the people-- they strip off their garments, in which they are ministering, and have placed them in the holy chambers, and have put on other garments; and they do not sanctify the people in their own garments.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And their head they do not shave, and the lock they do not send forth; they certainly poll their heads.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And no priest doth drink wine in their coming in unto the inner court.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And a widow and divorced woman they do not take to them for wives: but--virgins of the seed of the house of Israel, and the widow who is widow of a priest, do they take.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `And My people they direct between holy and common, and between unclean and clean they cause them to discern.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And concerning controversy, they stand up for judgment; with My judgments they judge it; and My law and My statutes in all My appointed places they keep; and My sabbaths they sanctify.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And unto any dead man they come not for uncleanness, but for father, and for mother, and for son, and for daughter, for brother, for sister who hath not been to a man, they defile themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> `And after his cleansing, seven days they number to him.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And in the day of his coming in unto the sanctuary, unto the inner court, to minister in the sanctuary, he bringeth near his sin-offering--an affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it hath been to them for an inheritance; I [am] their inheritance: and a possession ye do not give to them in Israel; I [am] their possession.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The present, and the sin-offering, and the guilt-offering, they do eat, and every devoted thing in Israel is theirs.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the first of all the first-fruits of all, and every heave-offering of all, of all your heave-offerings, are the priests': and the first of your dough ye give to the priest, to cause a blessing to rest on thy house.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Any carcase and torn thing, of the fowl, and of the beasts, the priests do not eat.</p>

</body>
</html>