<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying, `Son of man,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Two women were daughters of one mother,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they go a-whoring in Egypt, In their youth they have gone a-whoring, There they have bruised their breasts, And there they have dealt with the loves of their virginity.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And their names [are] Aholah the elder, And Aholibah her sister, And they are Mine, and bear sons and daughters. As to their names--Samaria [is] Aholah, And Jerusalem [is] Aholibah.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And go a-whoring doth Aholah under Me, And she doteth on her lovers, On the neighbouring Assyrians,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Clothed with blue--governors and prefects, Desirable young men all of them, Horsemen, riding on horses,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she giveth her whoredoms on them, The choice of the sons of Asshur, All of them--even all on whom she doted, By all their idols she hath been defiled.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And her whoredoms out of Egypt she hath not forsaken, For with her they lay in her youth, And they dealt with the loves of her virginity, And they pour out their whoredoms on her.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore I have given her into the hand of her lovers, Into the hand of sons of Asshur on whom she doted.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have uncovered her nakedness, Her sons and her daughters they have taken, And her by sword they have slain, And she is a name for women, And judgments they have done with her.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And see doth her sister Aholibah, And she maketh her doting love more corrupt than she, And her whoredoms than the whoredoms of her sister.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> On sons of Asshur she hath doted, Governors and prefects, Neighbouring ones-- clothed in perfection, Horsemen, riding on horses, Desirable young men all of them.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I see that she hath been defiled, One way [is] to them both.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And she doth add unto her whoredoms, And she seeth graved men on the wall, Pictures of Chaldeans, graved with red lead,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Girded with a girdle on their loins, Dyed attire spread out on their heads, The appearance of rulers--all of them, The likeness of sons of Babylon, Chaldea is the land of their birth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And she doteth on them at the sight of her eyes, And sendeth messengers to them, to Chaldea.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And come in unto her do sons of Babylon, To the bed of loves, And they defile her with their whoredoms, And she is defiled with them, And her soul is alienated from them.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And she revealeth her whoredoms, And she revealeth her nakedness, And alienated is My soul from off her, As alienated was My soul from off her sister.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And she multiplieth her whoredoms, To remember the days of her youth, When she went a-whoring in the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And she doteth on their paramours, Whose flesh [is] the flesh of asses, And the issue of horses--their issue.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou lookest after the wickedness of thy youth, In dealing out of Egypt thy loves, For the sake of the breasts of thy youth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore, O Aholibah, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Lo, I am stirring up thy lovers against thee, From whom thy soul hath been alienated, And have brought them in against thee from round about.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Sons of Babylon, and of all Chaldea, Pekod, and Shoa, and Koa, All the sons of Asshur with them, Desirable young men, governors and prefects, All of them--rulers and proclaimed ones, Riding on horses, all of them.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they have come in against thee, With arms, rider, and wheel, And with an assembly of peoples; Target, and shield, and helmet, They do set against thee round about, And I have set before them judgment, They have judged thee in their Judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I have set My jealousy against thee, And they have dealt with thee in fury, Thy nose and thine ears they turn aside, And thy posterity by sword falleth, They, thy sons and thy daughters do take away, And thy posterity is devoured by fire.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they have stripped thee of thy garments, And have taken thy beauteous jewels.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I have caused thy wickedness to cease from thee, And thy whoredoms out of the land of Egypt, And thou liftest not up thine eyes unto them, And Egypt thou dost not remember again.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For thus said the Lord Jehovah: Lo, I am giving thee into a hand that thou hast hated, Into a hand from which thou wast alienated.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they have dealt with thee in hatred, And they have taken all thy labour, And they have left thee naked and bare, And revealed hath been the nakedness of thy whoredoms, And the wickedness of thy whoredoms.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> To do these things to thee, In thy going a-whoring after nations, Because thou hast been defiled with their idols,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> In the way of thy sister thou hast walked, And I have given her cup into thy hand.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Thus said the Lord Jehovah: The cup of thy sister thou dost drink, The deep and the wide one, (Thou art for laughter and for scorn,) Abundant to contain.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> With drunkenness and sorrow thou art filled, A cup of astonishment and desolation, The cup of thy sister Samaria.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And thou hast drunk it, and hast drained [it], And its earthen ware thou dost gnaw, And thine own breasts thou pluckest off, For I have spoken, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Because thou hast forgotten Me, And thou dost cast Me behind thy back, Even thou also bear thy wickedness and thy whoredoms.'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Jehovah saith unto me, `Son of man, Dost thou judge Aholah and Aholibah? Declare then to them their abominations.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For they have committed adultery, And blood [is] in their hands, With their idols they committed adultery, And also their sons whom they bore to Me, They caused to pass over to them for food.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Again, this they have done to Me, They defiled My sanctuary in that day, And My sabbaths they have polluted.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And in their slaughtering their sons to their idols They also come in unto My sanctuary in that day to pollute it, And lo, thus they have done in the midst of My house,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And also that they send to men coming from afar, Unto whom a messenger is sent, And lo, they have come in for whom thou hast washed, Painted thine eyes, and put on adornment.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And thou hast sat on a couch of honour, And a table arrayed before it, And My perfume and My oil placed on it.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And the voice of a multitude at ease [is] with her, And unto men of the common people are brought in Sabeans from the wilderness, And they put bracelets on their hands, And a beauteous crown on their heads.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And I say of the worn-out one in adulteries, Now they commit her whoredoms--she also!</p>

<p><a id="c23_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And they come in unto her, As the coming in unto a whorish woman, So they have come in unto Aholah, And unto Aholibah--the wicked women.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> As to righteous men, they judge them with the judgment of adulteresses, And the judgment of women shedding blood, For they [are] adulteresses, And blood [is] in their hands.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> For thus said the Lord Jehovah: Bring up against them an assembly, And give them to trembling and to spoiling.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And they have cast at them the stone of the assembly, And cut them with their swords, Their sons and their daughters they do slay, And their houses with fire they burn.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And I have caused wickedness to cease from the land, And instructed have been all the women, And they do not according to your wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And they have put your wickedness on you, And the sins of your idols ye bear, And ye have known that I [am] the Lord Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>