<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth of the month, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Son of man, write for thee the name of the day--this self-same day leaned hath the king of Babylon toward Jerusalem in this self-same day--</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and use unto the rebellious house a simile, and thou hast said unto them: Thus said the Lord Jehovah: To set on the pot, to set [it] on, and also to pour into it water,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To gather its pieces unto it, every good piece, Thigh and shoulder, the choice of the bones to fill in.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The choice of the flock to take, And also to pile of the bones under it, Boil it thoroughly, yea, cook its bones in its midst.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Woe [to] the city of blood, A pot whose scum [is] in it, And its scum hath not come out of it, By piece of it, by piece of it bring it out, Not fallen on it hath a lot.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For her blood in her midst hath been, On a clear place of a rock she hath set it, She hath not poured it on the earth, To cover it over with dust.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> To cause fury to come up to take vengeance, I have put her blood on a clear place of a rock--not to be covered.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: Woe [to] the city of blood, yea, I--I make great the pile.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Make abundant the wood, Kindle the fire, consume the flesh, And make the compound, And let the bones be burnt.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And cause it to stand on its coals empty, So that its brass is hot and burning, Melted hath been in its midst its uncleanness, Consumed is its scum.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> [With] sorrows she hath wearied herself, And the abundance of her scum goeth not out of her, In the fire [is] her scum.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In thine uncleanness [is] wickedness, Because I have cleansed thee, And thou hast not been cleansed, From thine uncleanness thou art not cleansed again, Till I have caused My fury to rest on thee.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I, Jehovah, hath spoken, It hath come, and I have done [it], I do not free, nor do I spare, nor do I repent, According to thy ways, and according to thine acts, they have judged thee, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto me, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `Son of man, lo, I am taking from thee the desire of thine eyes by a stroke, and thou dost not mourn, nor weep, nor let thy tear come.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Cease to groan, [for] the dead thou dost make no mourning, thy bonnet bind on thee, and thy shoes thou dost put on thy feet, and thou dost not cover over the upper lip, and bread of men thou dost not eat.'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I speak unto the people in the morning, and my wife dieth in the evening, and I do in the morning as I have been commanded.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the people say unto me, `Dost thou not declare to us what these [are] to us, that thou art doing?'</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And I say unto them, `A word of Jehovah hath been unto me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Say to the house of Israel: Thus said the Lord Jehovah: Lo, I am polluting My sanctuary, The excellency of your strength, The desire of your eyes, and the pitied of your soul, And your sons and your daughters whom ye have left, by sword they do fall.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And ye have done as I have done, On the upper lip ye are not covered, And bread of men ye do not eat.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And your bonnets [are] on your heads, And your shoes [are] on your feet, Ye do not mourn nor do ye weep, And ye have wasted away for your iniquities, And ye have howled one unto another.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Ezekiel hath been to you for a type, According to all that he hath done ye do; In its coming in--ye have known that I [am] the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And thou, son of man, Is it not in the day of My taking from them their strength, The joy of their beauty, the desire of their eyes, And the song of their soul, Their sons and their daughters?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In that day come doth the escaped one to thee. To cause the ears to hear.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> In that day opened is thy mouth with the escaped, And thou speakest, and art not silent any more, And thou hast been to them for a type. And they have known that I [am] Jehovah.'</p>

</body>
</html>