<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `In the third year of the reign of Belshazzar the king, a vision hath appeared unto me--I</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I see in a vision, and it cometh to pass, in my seeing, and I [am] in Shushan the palace that [is] in Elam the province, and I see in a vision, and I have been by the stream Ulai.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I lift up mine eyes, and look, and lo, a certain ram is standing before the stream, and it hath two horns, and the two horns [are] high; and the one [is] higher than the other, and the high one is coming up last.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have seen the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward, and no living creatures do stand before it, and there is none delivering out of its hand, and it hath done according to its pleasure, and hath exerted itself.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `And I have been considering, and lo, a young he-goat hath come from the west, over the face of the whole earth, whom none is touching in the earth; as to the young he-goat, a conspicuous horn [is] between its eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it cometh unto the ram possessing the two horns, that I had seen standing before the stream, and runneth unto it in the fury of its power.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I have seen it coming near the ram, and it becometh embittered at it, and smiteth the ram, and breaketh its two horns, and there hath been no power in the ram to stand before it, and it casteth it to the earth, and trampleth it down, and there hath been no deliverer to the ram out of its power.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `And the young he-goat hath exerted itself very much, and when it is strong, broken hath been the great horn; and come up doth a vision of four in its place, at the four winds of the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And from the one of them come forth hath a little horn, and it exerteth itself greatly toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the beauteous [land];</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> yea, it exerteth unto the host of the heavens, and causeth to fall to the earth of the host, and of the stars, and trampleth them down.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And unto the prince of the host it exerteth itself, and by it taken away hath been the continual [sacrifice], and thrown down the base of his sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the host is given up, with the continual [sacrifice], through transgression, and it throweth down truth to the earth, and it hath worked, and prospered.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> `And I hear a certain holy one speaking, and a certain holy one saith to the wonderful numberer who is speaking: Till when [is] the vision of the continual [sacrifice], and of the transgression, an astonishment, to make both sanctuary and host a treading down?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he saith unto me, Till evening--morning two thousand and three hundred, then is the holy place declared right.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `And it cometh to pass in my seeing--I, Daniel--the vision, that I require understanding, and lo, standing over-against me [is] as the appearance of a mighty one.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I hear a voice of man between [the banks of] Ulai, and he calleth and saith: Gabriel, cause this [one] to understand the appearance.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he cometh in near my station, and at his coming in I have been afraid, and I fall on my face, and he saith unto me: Understand, son of man, for at the time of the end [is] the vision.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And in his speaking with me, I have been in a trance on my face, on the earth; and he cometh against me, and causeth me to stand on my station,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and saith: Lo, I--I am causing thee to know that which is in the latter end of the indignation; for, at the appointed time [is] the end.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `The ram that thou hast seen possessing two horns, [are] the kings of Media and Persia.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the young he-goat, the hairy one, [is] the king of Javan; and the great horn that [is] between its eyes is the first king;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and that being broken, stand up do four in its place, four kingdoms from the nation do stand up, and not in its power.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `And in the latter end of their kingdom, about the perfecting of the transgressors, stand up doth a king, fierce of face, and understanding hidden things;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and his power hath been mighty, and not by his own power; and wonderful things he destroyeth, and he hath prospered, and wrought, and destroyed mighty ones, and the people of the Holy Ones.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> `And by his understanding he hath also caused deceit to prosper in his hand, and in his heart he exerteth himself, and by ease he destroyeth many; and against the prince of princes he standeth--and without hand he is broken.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the appearance of the evening and of the morning, that is told, is true; and thou, hide thou the vision, for [it is] after many days.'</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I, Daniel, have been, yea, I became sick [for] days, and I rise, and do the king's work, and am astonished at the appearance, and there is none understanding.</p>

</body>
</html>