<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia, a thing is revealed to Daniel, whose name is called Belteshazzar, and the thing [is] true, and the warfare [is] great: and he hath understood the thing, and hath understanding about the appearance.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `In those days, I, Daniel, have been mourning three weeks of days;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> desirable bread I have not eaten, and flesh and wine hath not come in unto my mouth, and I have not anointed myself at all, till the completion of three weeks of days.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `And in the twenty and fourth day of the first month, I have been by the side of the great river, that [is] Hiddekel:</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and I lift up mine eyes, and look, and lo, a certain one clothed in linen, and his loins girt with pure gold of Uphaz,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and his body as a beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet as the aspect of bright brass, and the voice of his words as the voice of a multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> `And I have seen--I, Daniel, by myself--the appearance: and the men who have been with me have not seen the appearance, but a great trembling hath fallen on them, and they flee to be hidden;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and I have been left by myself, and I see this great appearance, and there hath been no power left in me, and my honour hath been turned in me to corruption, yea, I have not retained power.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `And I hear the voice of his words, and when I hear the voice of his words, then I have been in a trance on my face, and my face [is] to the earth;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and lo, a hand hath come against me, and shaketh me on my knees and the palms of my hands.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `And he saith unto me: Daniel, man greatly desired, attend to the words that I am speaking unto thee, and stand on thy station, for now I have been sent unto thee. `And when he speaketh with me this word, I have stood trembling.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he saith unto me: Do not fear, Daniel, for from the first day that thou didst give thy heart to understand, and to humble thyself before thy God, thy words have been heard, and I have come because of thy words.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> `And the head of the kingdom of Persia is standing over-against me twenty and one days, and lo, Michael, first of the chief heads, hath come in to help me, and I have remained there near the kings of Persia;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and I have come to cause thee to understand that which doth happen to thy people in the latter end of the days, for yet the vision [is] after days.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `And when he speaketh with me about these things, I have set my face toward the earth, and have been silent;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and lo, as the manner of the sons of men, he is striking against my lips, and I open my mouth, and I speak, and say unto him who is standing over-against me: My lord, by the appearance turned have been my pangs against me, and I have retained no power.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And how is the servant of this my lord able to speak with this my lord? as for me, henceforth there remaineth in me no power, yea, breath hath not been left in me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `And he addeth, and striketh against me, as the appearance of a man, and strengtheneth me,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and he saith: Do not fear, O man greatly desired, peace to thee, be strong, yea, be strong; and when he speaketh with me, I have strengthened myself, and I say, Let my lord speak, for thou hast strengthened me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he saith, Hast thou known why I have come unto thee? and now I turn back to fight with the head of Persia; yea, I am going forth, and lo, the head of Javan hath come;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but I declare to thee that which is noted down in the Writing of Truth, and there is not one strengthening himself with me, concerning these, except Michael your head.</p>

</body>
</html>