<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `Hear this, O priests, and attend, O house of Israel, And, O house of the king, give ear, For the judgment [is] for you, For, a snare ye have been on Mizpah, And a net spread out on Tabor.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And to slaughter sinners have gone deep, And I [am] a fetter to them all.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have known Ephraim, And Israel hath not been hid from me, For now thou hast gone a-whoring, Ephraim, Defiled is Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They give not up their habitual doings, To turn back unto their God, For a spirit of whoredoms [is] in their midst, And Jehovah they have not known.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And humbled hath been the excellency of Israel to his face, And Israel and Ephraim stumble by their iniquity, Stumbled also hath Judah with them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> With their flock and with their herd, They go to seek Jehovah, and do not find, He hath withdrawn from them.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Against Jehovah they dealt treacherously, For strange sons they have begotten, Now consume them doth a month [with] their portions.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Blow ye a cornet in Gibeah, a trumpet in Ramah, Shout, O Beth-Aven, after thee, O Benjamin.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ephraim is for a desolation in a day of reproof, Among the tribes of Israel I have made known a sure thing.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Princes of Judah have been as those removing a border, On them I do pour out as water My wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Oppressed is Ephraim, broken in judgment, When he pleased he went after the command.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I [am] as a moth to Ephraim, And as a rotten thing to the house of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And see doth Ephraim his sickness, and Judah his wound, And Ephraim goeth unto Asshur, And sendeth unto a warlike king, And he is not able to give healing to you, Nor doth he remove from you a scar.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For I [am] as a lion to Ephraim, And as a young lion to the house of Judah, I--I tear and go, I bear away, and there is no deliverer.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I go--I turn back unto My place, Till that they are desolate, and have sought My face. In their distress they do seek Me speedily!'</p>

</body>
</html>