<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `Hear a word of Jehovah, sons of Israel, For a strife [is] to Jehovah with inhabitants of the land, For there is no truth, nor kindness, Nor knowledge of God, in the land,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Swearing, and lying, and murdering, And stealing, and committing adultery--have increased, And blood against blood hath touched.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore mourn doth the land, And weak is every dweller in it, With the beast of the field, And with the fowl of the heavens, And the fishes of the sea--they are removed.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Only, let no one strive, nor reprove a man, And thy people [are] as those striving with a priest.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And thou hast stumbled in the day, And stumbled hath also a prophet with thee in the night, And I have cut off thy mother.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Cut off have been My people for lack of knowledge, Because thou knowledge hast rejected, I reject thee from being priest to Me, And thou forgettest the law of thy God, I forget thy sons, I also!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> According to their abundance so they sinned against Me, Their honour into shame I change.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sin of My people they do eat, And unto their iniquity lift up their soul.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it hath been, like people, like priest, And I have charged on it its ways, And its habitual doings I return to it.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they have eaten, and are not satisfied, They have gone a-whoring, and increase not, For they have left off taking heed to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whoredom, and wine, and new wine, take the heart,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My people at its staff asketh and its rod declareth to it, For a spirit of whoredoms hath caused to err, And they go a-whoring from under their God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> On tops of the mountains they do sacrifice, And on the hills they make perfume, Under oak, and poplar, and terebinth, For good [is] its shade.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore commit whoredom do your daughters, And your spouses commit adultery, I do not see after your daughters when they commit whoredom, And after your spouses when they commit adultery, For they with the harlots are separated, And with thewhores they do sacrifice, A people that doth not understand kicketh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though a harlot thou [art], O Israel, Let not Judah become guilty, And come not ye in to Gilgal, nor go up to Beth-Aven, Nor swear ye, Jehovah liveth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For as a refractory heifer hath Israel turned aside, Now doth Jehovah feed them as a lamb in a large place.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Joined to idols [is] Ephraim, let him alone.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Sour [is] their drink, They have gone diligently a-whoring, Her protectors have loved shame thoroughly.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Distressed her hath wind with its wings, And they are ashamed of their sacrifices!</p>

</body>
</html>