<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `When I give healing to Israel, Then revealed is the iniquity of Ephraim, And the wickedness of Samaria, For they have wrought falsehood, And a thief doth come in, Stript off hath a troop in the street,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they do not say to their heart, [That] all their evil I have remembered, Now compassed them have their doings, Over-against My face they have been.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> With their wickedness they make glad a king, And with their lies--princes.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> All of them [are] adulterers, Like a burning oven of a baker, He ceaseth from stirring up after kneading the dough, till its leavening.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A day of our king! Princes have polluted themselves [with] the poison of wine, He hath drawn out his hand with scorners.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For they have drawn near, As an oven [is] their heart, In their lying in wait all the night sleep doth their baker, Morning! he is burning as a flaming fire.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All of them are warm as an oven, And they have devoured their judges, All their kings have fallen, There is none calling unto Me among them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim! among peoples he mixeth himself, Ephraim hath been a cake unturned.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Devoured have strangers his power, And he hath not known, Also old age hath sprinkled [itself] on him, And he hath not known.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And humbled hath been the excellency of Israel to his face, And they have not turned back unto Jehovah their God, Nor have they sought Him for all this.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Ephraim is as a simple dove without heart, Egypt they called on--[to] Asshur they have gone.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they go I spread over them My net, As the fowl of the heavens I bring them down, I chastise them as their company hath heard.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Woe to them, for they wandered from Me, Destruction to them, for they transgressed against Me, And I--I ransom them, and they have spoken lies against Me,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And have not cried unto Me with their heart, but howl on their beds, For corn and new wine they assemble themselves, They turn aside against Me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I instructed--I strengthened their arms, And concerning Me they think evil!</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They turn back--not to the Most High, They have been as a deceitful bow, Fall by sword do their princes, From the insolence of their tongue, This [is] their derision in the land of Egypt!</p>

</body>
</html>