<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Ephraim is enjoying wind, And is pursuing an east wind, All the day lying and spoiling he multiplieth, And a covenant with Asshur they make, And oil to Egypt is carried.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And a controversy hath Jehovah with Judah, To lay a charge on Jacob according to his ways, According to his doings He returneth to him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the womb he took his brother by the heel, And by his strength he was a prince with God,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yea, he is a prince unto the Messenger, And he overcometh [by] weeping, And he maketh supplication to Him, At Bethel He doth find him, And there He doth speak with us,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Even Jehovah, God of the Hosts, Jehovah [is] His memorial.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou, through thy God, dost turn, Kindness and judgment keep thou, And wait on thy God continually.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Canaan! in his hand [are] balances of deceit! To oppress he hath loved.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Ephraim saith: `Surely I have become rich, I have found wealth for myself, All my labours--they find not against me iniquity that [is] sin.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I--Jehovah thy God from the land of Egypt, Again do I turn thee back into tents, As in the days of the appointed time.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I have spoken unto the prophets, And I have multiplied vision, And by the hand of the prophets I use similes.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Surely Gilead [is] iniquity, Only, vanity they have been, In Gilead bullocks they have sacrificed, Also their altars [are] as heaps, on the furrows of a field.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jacob doth flee to the country of Aram, And Israel doth serve for a wife, Yea, for a wife he hath kept watch.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And by a prophet hath Jehovah brought up Israel out of Egypt, And by a prophet it hath been watched.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ephraim hath provoked most bitterly, And his blood on himself he leaveth, And his reproach turn back to him doth his Lord!</p>

</body>
</html>