<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `Come, and we turn back unto Jehovah, For He hath torn, and He doth heal us, He doth smite, and He bindeth us up.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He doth revive us after two days, In the third day He doth raise us up, And we live before Him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And we know--we pursue to know Jehovah, As the dawn prepared is His going forth, And He cometh in as a shower to us, As gathered rain--sprinkling earth.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What do I do to thee, O Ephraim? What do I do to thee, O Judah? Your goodness [is] as a cloud of the morning, And as dew rising early--going.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore I have hewed by prophets, I have slain them by sayings of My mouth, And My judgments to the light goeth forth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For kindness I desired, and not sacrifice, And a knowledge of God above burntofferings.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they, as Adam, transgressed a covenant, There they dealt treacherously against me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Gilead [is] a city of workers of iniquity, Slippery from blood.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And as bands do wait for a man, A company of priests do murder--the way to Shechem, For wickedness they have done.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing, There [is] the whoredom of Ephraim--defiled is Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Also, O Judah, appointed is a harvest to thee, In My turning back [to] the captivity of My people!</p>

</body>
</html>