<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Ephraim speaketh tremblingly, He hath been lifted up in Israel, When he becometh guilty in Baal he dieth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And now do they add to sin, And make to them a molten image of their silver, By their own understanding--idols, A work of artisans--all of it, Of them they say, who [are] sacrificers among men, `The calves let them kiss.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore they are as a cloud of the morning, And as dew, rising early, going away, As chaff tossed about out of a floor, And as smoke out of a window.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I [am] Jehovah thy God from the land of Egypt, And a God besides Me thou dost not know, And a Saviour--there is none save Me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I--I have known thee in a wilderness, In a land of droughts.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> According to their feedings they are satiated, They have been satiated, And their heart is lifted up, Therefore they have forgotten Me,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I am to them as a lion, As a leopard by the way I look out.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I do meet them as a bereaved bear, And I rend the enclosure of their heart.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I consume them there as a lioness, A beast of the field doth rend them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou hast destroyed thyself, O Israel, But in Me [is] thy help, Where [is] thy king now--And he doth save thee in all thy cities? And thy judges of whom thou didst say, `Give to me a king and heads?'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I give to thee a king in Mine anger, And I take away in My wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Bound up [is] the iniquity of Ephraim, Hidden [is] his sin,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Pangs of a travailing woman come to him, He [is] a son not wise, For he remaineth not the time for the breaking forth of sons.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From the hand of Sheol I do ransom them, From death I redeem them, Where [is] thy plague, O death? Where thy destruction, O Sheol? Repentance is hid from Mine eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though he among brethren produceth fruit, Come in doth an east wind, a wind of Jehovah, From a wilderness it is coming up, And it drieth up his fountain, And become dry doth his spring, It--it spoileth a treasure--every desirable vessel.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Become desolate doth Samaria, Because she hath rebelled against her God, By sword they do fall, Their sucklings are dashed in pieces, And its pregnant ones are ripped up!</p>

</body>
</html>