<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `An empty vine [is] Israel, Fruit he maketh like to himself, According to the abundance of his fruit, He hath multiplied for the altars, According to the goodness of his land, They have made goodly standing-pillars.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Their heart hath been divided, now they are guilty, He doth break down their altars, He doth destroy their standing-pillars.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For now they say: We have no king, Because we have not feared Jehovah, And the king--what doth he for us?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have spoken words, To swear falsehood in making a covenant, And flourished as a poisonous herb hath judgment, on the furrows of a field.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For the calves of Beth-Aven fear do inhabitants of Samaria, Surely mourned on account of it hath its people, And its priests on account of it leap about, Because of its honour, for it hath removed from it,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Also it to Asshur is carried, a present to a warlike king, Shame doth Ephraim receive, And ashamed is Israel of its own counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Cut off is Samaria! Its king [is] as a chip on the face of the waters.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And destroyed have been high places of Aven, the sin of Israel. Thorn and bramble go up on their altars, And they have said to hills, Cover us, And to heights, Fall upon us.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the days of Gibeah thou hast sinned, O Israel, There they have stood, Not overtake them in Gibeah doth battle, Because of sons of perverseness.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When I desire, then I do bind them, And gathered against them have peoples, When they bind themselves to their two iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Ephraim [is] a trained heifer--loving to thresh, And I--I have passed over on the goodness of its neck, I cause [one] to ride Ephraim, Plough doth Judah, harrow for him doth Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Sow for yourselves in righteousness, Reap according to loving-kindness, Till for yourselves tillage of knowledge, To seek Jehovah, Till he come and shew righteousness to you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye have ploughed wickedness, Perversity ye have reaped, Ye have eaten the fruit of lying, For thou hast trusted in thy way, In the abundance of thy might.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And rise doth a tumult among thy people, And all thy fortresses are spoiled, As the spoiling of Shalman of Beth-Arbel, In a day of battle, Mother against sons dashed in pieces.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus hath Beth-El done to you, Because of the evil of your wickedness, In the dawn cut off utterly is a king of Israel!</p>

</body>
</html>