<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Turn back, O Israel, unto Jehovah thy God, For thou hast stumbled by thine iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take with you words, and turn to Jehovah, Say ye unto Him: `Take away all iniquity, and give good, And we do render the fruit of our lips.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Asshur doth not save us, on a horse we ride not, Nor do we say any more, Our God, to the work of our hands, For in Thee find mercy doth the fatherless.'</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I heal their backsliding, I love them freely, For turned back hath Mine anger from him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I am as dew to Israel, he flourisheth as a lily, And he striketh forth his roots as Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Go on do his sucklings, And his beauty is as an olive, And he hath fragrance as Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Return do the dwellers under his shadow, They revive [as] corn, and flourish as a vine, His memorial [is] as wine of Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O Ephraim, what to Me any more with idols? I--I afflicted, and I cause him to sing: `I [am] as a green fir-tree,' From Me is thy fruit found.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who [is] wise, and doth understand these? Prudent, and knoweth them? For upright are the ways of Jehovah, And the righteous go on in them, And the transgressors stumble therein!</p>

</body>
</html>