<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Because Israel [is] a youth, and I love him, Out of Egypt I have called for My Son.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They have called to them rightly, They have gone from before them, To lords they do sacrifice, And to graven images they make perfume.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I have caused Ephraim to go on foot, Taking them by their arms, And they have not known that I strengthened them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> With cords of man I do draw them, With thick cords of love, And I am to them as a raiser up of a yoke on their jaws, And I incline unto him--I feed [him].</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He turneth not back unto the land of Egypt, And Asshur--he [is] his king, For they have refused to return.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Grievous hath been the sword in his cities, And it hath ended his bars, and consumed-- from their own counsels.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And My people are hanging in suspense, about My returning, And unto the Most High they do call, Together they exalt not.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How do I give thee up, O Ephraim? Do I deliver thee up, O Israel? How do I make thee as Admah? Do I set thee as Zeboim? Turned in Me is My heart, kindled together have been My repentings.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I do not the fierceness of My anger, I turn not back to destroy Ephraim, For God I [am], and not a man. In thy midst the Holy One, and I enter not in enmity,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> After Jehovah they go--as a lion He roareth, When He doth roar, then tremble do the sons from the west.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They tremble as a sparrow out of Egypt, And as a dove out of the land of Asshur, And I have caused them to dwell in their own houses, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Compassed Me with feigning hath Ephraim, And with deceit the house of Israel. And Judah again is ruling with God, And with the Holy Ones [is] faithful!</p>

</body>
</html>