<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `Unto thy mouth--a trumpet, As an eagle against the house of Jehovah, Because they transgressed My covenant, And against My law they have rebelled.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To Me they cry, `My God, we--Israel--have known Thee.'</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Cast off good hath Israel, an enemy pursueth him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have made kings, and not by Me, They have made princes, and I have not known, Their silver and their gold they have made to them idols, So that they are cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Cast off hath thy calf, O Samaria, Burned hath Mine anger against them, Till when are they not capable of purity?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For even it [is] of Israel; an artificer made it, And it [is] not God, For the calf of Samaria is fragments!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For wind they sow, and a hurricane they reap, Stalk it hath none--a shoot not yielding grain, If so be it yield--strangers do swallow it up.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Israel hath been swallowed up, Now they have been among nations, As a vessel in which is no delight.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For they--they have gone up [to] Asshur, A wild ass alone by himself [is] Ephraim, They have hired lovers!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Also though they hire among nations, Now I gather them, and they are pained a little, From the burden of a king of princes.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because Ephraim did multiply altars to sin, They have been to him altars to sin.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I write for him numerous things of My law, As a strange thing they have been reckoned.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sacrifices of Mine offerings! They sacrifice flesh, and they eat, Jehovah hath not accepted them, Now doth He remember their iniquity, And inspect their sin, They--[to] Egypt they turn back.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And forget doth Israel his Maker, and buildeth temples, And Judah hath multiplied cities of defence, And I have sent a fire into his cities, And it hath consumed their palaces!</p>

</body>
</html>