<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `Rejoice not, O Israel, be not joyful like the peoples, For thou hast gone a-whoring from thy God, Thou hast loved a gift near all floors of corn.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Floor and wine-press do not delight them, And new wine doth fail in her,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They do not abide in the land of Jehovah, And turned back hath Ephraim [to] Egypt, And in Asshur an unclean thing they eat.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They pour not out wine to Jehovah, Nor are they sweet to Him, Their sacrifices [are] as bread of mourners to them, All eating it are unclean: For their bread [is] for themselves, It doth not come into the house of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> What do ye at the day appointed? And at the day of Jehovah's festival?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For, lo, they have gone because of destruction, Egypt gathereth them, Moph burieth them, The desirable things of their silver, Nettles possess them--a thorn [is] in their tents.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Come in have the days of inspection, Come in have the days of recompence, Israel doth know! a fool [is] the prophet, Mad [is] the man of the Spirit, Because of the abundance of thine iniquity, And great [is] the hatred.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim is looking [away] from My God, The prophet! a snare of a fowler [is] over all his ways, Hatred [is] in the house of his God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They have gone deep--have done corruptly, As [in] the days of Gibeah, He doth remember their iniquity, He doth inspect their sins.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As grapes in a wilderness I found Israel, As the first-fruit in a fig-tree, at its beginning, I have seen your fathers, They--they have gone in [to] Baal-Peor, And are separated to a shameful thing, And are become abominable like their love.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ephraim [is] as a fowl, Fly away doth their honour, without birth, And without womb, and without conception.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For though they nourish their sons, I have made them childless--without man, Surely also, woe to them, when I turn aside from them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ephraim! when I have looked to the rock, Is planted in comeliness, And Ephraim [is] to bring out unto a slayer his sons.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Give to them, Jehovah--what dost Thou give? Give to them miscarrying womb, and dry breasts.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All their evil [is] in Gilgal, Surely there I have hated them, Because of the evil of their doings, Out of My house I do drive them, I add not to love them, all their heads [are] apostates.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Ephraim hath been smitten, Their root hath dried up, fruit they yield not, Yea, though they bring forth, I have put to death the desired of their womb.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Reject them doth my God, Because they have not hearkened to Him, And they are wanderers among nations!</p>

</body>
</html>