<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For lo, in those days, and in that time, When I turn back [to] the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then I have gathered all the nations, And caused them to go down unto the valley of Jehoshaphat, And I have been judged with them there, Concerning My people and Mine inheritance--Israel, Whom they scattered among nations, And My land they have apportioned.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And for My people they do cast a lot, And they give the young man for an harlot, And the young woman have sold for wine, That they may drink.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And also, what [are] ye to Me, O Tyre and Zidon, And all circuits of Philistia? Recompence are ye rendering unto Me? And if ye are giving recompence to Me, Swiftly, hastily, I turn back your recompence on your head.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In that My silver and My gold ye took, And My desirable things that are good, Ye have brought in to your temples.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And sons of Judah, and sons of Jerusalem, Ye have sold to the sons of Javan, To put them far off from their border.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Lo, I am stirring them up out of the place Whither ye have sold them, And I have turned back your recompence on your head,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And have sold your sons and your daughters Into the hand of the sons of Judah, And they have sold them to Shabeans, Unto a nation far off, for Jehovah hath spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Proclaim ye this among nations, Sanctify a war, stir up the mighty ones, Come nigh, come up, let all the men of war.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Beat your ploughshares to swords, And your pruning-hooks to javelins, Let the weak say, `I [am] mighty.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Haste, and come in, all ye nations round, And be gathered together, Thither cause to come down, O Jehovah, Thy mighty ones.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wake and come up let the nations unto the valley of Jehoshaphat, For there I sit to judge all the nations around.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Send ye forth a sickle, For ripened hath harvest, Come in, come down, for filled hath been the press, Overflowed hath wine-presses, For great [is] their wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Multitudes, multitudes [are] in the valley of decision, For near [is] the day of Jehovah in the valley of decision.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Sun and moon have been black, And stars have gathered up their shining.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jehovah from Zion doth roar, And from Jerusalem giveth forth His voice, And shaken have the heavens and earth, And Jehovah [is] a refuge to his people, And a stronghold to sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And ye have known that I [am] Jehovah your God, Dwelling in Zion, My holy mountain, And Jerusalem hath been holy, And strangers do not pass over into it again.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it hath come to pass, in that day, Drop down do the mountains juice, And the hills do flow [with] milk, And all streams of Judah do go [with] water, And a fountain from the house of Jehovah goeth forth, And hath watered the valley of Shittim.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Egypt a desolation becometh, And Edom a desolation, a wilderness, becometh, For violence [to] sons of Judah, Whose innocent blood they shed in their land.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Judah to the age doth dwell, And Jerusalem to generation and generation.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I have declared their blood innocent, [That] I did not declare innocent, And Jehovah is dwelling in Zion!</p>

</body>
</html>