<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe [to] those secure in Zion, And those confident in the mount of Samaria, The marked of the chief of the nations, And come to them have the house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Pass ye over [to] Calneh and see, And go thence [to] Hamath the great, And go down [to] Gath of the Philistines, Are [they] better than these kingdoms? Greater [is] their border than your border?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who are putting away the day of evil, And ye bring nigh the seat of violence,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who are lying down on beds of ivory, And are spread out on their couches, And are eating lambs from the flock, And calves from the midst of the stall,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who are taking part according to the psaltery, Like David they invented for themselves instruments of music;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who are drinking with bowls of wine, And [with] chief perfumes anoint [themselves], And have not been pained for the breach of Joseph.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore now they remove at the head of the captives, And turned aside is the mourning-feast of stretched-out ones.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Sworn hath the Lord Jehovah by Himself, An affirmation of Jehovah, God of Hosts: I am abominating the excellency of Jacob, And his high places I have hated, And I have delivered up the city and its fulness.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And if there are left ten persons in one house, It hath come to pass--that they have died.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And lifted him up hath his loved one, even his burner, To bring forth the bones from the house, And he said to him who [is] in the sides of the house, `Is there yet with thee?' And he said, `None,' then he said, `Hush! Save to make mention of the name of Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For lo, Jehovah is commanding, And He hath smitten the great house [with] breaches, And the little house [with] clefts.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Do horses run on a rock? Doth one plough [it] with oxen? For ye have turned to gall judgment, And the fruit of righteousness to wormwood.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O ye who are rejoicing at nothing, Who are saying, `Have we not by our strength taken to ourselves horns?'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Surely, lo, I am raising against you a nation, O house of Israel, An affirmation of Jehovah, God of Hosts, And they have oppressed you from the coming in to Hamath, Unto the stream of the desert.</p>

</body>
</html>