<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye this word that Jehovah hath spoken concerning you, O sons of Israel, concerning all the family that I brought up from the land of Egypt, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Only you I have known of all families of the land, Therefore I charge on you all your iniquities.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do two walk together if they have not met?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Roar doth a lion in a forest and prey he hath none? Give out doth a young lion his voice from his habitation, If he hath not caught?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Doth a bird fall into a snare of the earth, And there is no gin for it? Doth a snare go up from the ground, And prey it captureth not?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Is a trumpet blown in a city, And do people not tremble? Is there affliction in a city, And Jehovah hath not done [it]?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the Lord Jehovah doth nothing, Except He hath revealed His counsel unto His servants the prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A lion hath roared--who doth not fear? The Lord Jehovah hath spoken--who doth not prophesy?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Sound ye unto palaces in Ashdod, And to palaces in the land of Egypt, and say: Be ye gathered on mountains of Samaria, And see many troubles within her, And oppressed ones in her midst.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they have not known to act straightforwardly, An affirmation of Jehovah, Who are treasuring up violence and spoil in their palaces.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, thus said the Lord Jehovah: An adversary--and surrounding the land, And he hath brought down from thee thy strength, And spoiled have been thy palaces.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thus said Jehovah: As the shepherd delivereth from the lion's mouth Two legs, or a piece of an ear, So delivered are the sons of Israel, Who are sitting in Samaria on the corner of a bed, And in Damascus [on that of] a couch.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hear ye and testify to the house of Jacob, An affirmation of the Lord Jehovah, God of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For in the day of My charging the transgressions of Israel on him, I have laid a charge on the altars of Beth-El, And cut off have been the horns of the altar, And they have fallen to the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I have smitten the winter-house with the summer-house, And perished have houses of ivory, And consumed have been many houses, An affirmation of Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>