<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jonah prayeth unto Jehovah his God from the bowels of the fish.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he saith: I called, because of my distress, to Jehovah, And He doth answer me, From the belly of sheol I have cried, Thou hast heard my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When Thou dost cast me [into] the deep, Into the heart of the seas, Then the flood doth compass me, All Thy breakers and Thy billows have passed over me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I--I said: I have been cast out from before Thine eyes, (Yet I add to look unto Thy holy temple!)</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Compassed me have waters unto the soul, The deep doth compass me, The weed is bound to my head.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> To the cuttings of mountains I have come down, The earth, her bars [are] behind me to the age. And Thou bringest up from the pit my life, O Jehovah my God.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the feebleness within me of my soul Jehovah I have remembered, And come in unto Thee doth my prayer, Unto Thy holy temple.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Those observing lying vanities their own mercy forsake.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I--with a voice of thanksgiving--I sacrifice to Thee, That which I have vowed I complete, Salvation [is] of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jehovah saith to the fish, and it vomiteth out Jonah on the dry land.</p>

</body>
</html>