<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah unto Jonah son of Amittai, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Rise, go unto Nineveh, the great city, and proclaim against it that their wickedness hath come up before Me.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jonah riseth to flee to Tarshish from the face of Jehovah, and goeth down [to] Joppa, and findeth a ship going [to] Tarshish, and he giveth its fare, and goeth down into it, to go with them to Tarshish from the face of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jehovah hath cast a great wind on the sea, and there is a great tempest in the sea, and the ship hath reckoned to be broken;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the mariners are afraid, and cry each unto his god, and cast the goods that [are] in the ship into the sea, to make [it] light of them; and Jonah hath gone down unto the sides of the vessel, and he lieth down, and is fast asleep.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the chief of the company draweth near to him, and saith to him, `What--to thee, O sleeper? rise, call unto thy God, it may be God doth bethink himself of us, and we do not perish.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they say each unto his neighbour, `Come, and we cast lots, and we know on whose account this evil [is] on us.' And they cast lots, and the lot falleth on Jonah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they say unto him, `Declare to us, we pray thee, on what account this evil [is] on us? what [is] thine occupation, and whence comest thou? what [is] thy country, seeing thou art not of this people?'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he saith unto them, `A Hebrew I [am], and Jehovah, God of the heavens, I am reverencing, who made the sea and the dry land.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the men fear a great fear, and say unto him, `What [is] this thou hast done!' for the men have known that from the face of Jehovah he is fleeing, for he hath told them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they say unto him, `What do we do to thee that the sea may cease from us, for the sea is more and more tempestuous?'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he saith unto them, `Lift me up, and cast me into the sea, and the sea doth cease from you; for I know that on my account this great tempest [is] upon you.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the men row to turn back unto the dry land, and are not able, for the sea is more and more tempestuous against them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they cry unto Jehovah, and say, `We pray Thee, O Jehovah, let us not, we pray Thee, perish for this man's life, and do not lay on us innocent blood, for Thou, Jehovah, as Thou hast pleased, Thou hast done.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they lift up Jonah, and cast him into the sea, and the sea ceaseth from its raging;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the men fear Jehovah--a great fear, and sacrifice a sacrifice to Jehovah, and vow vows.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jehovah appointeth a great fish to swallow up Jonah, and Jonah is in the bowels of the fish three days and three nights.</p>

</body>
</html>