<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A word of Jehovah that hath been unto Micah the Morashite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, kings of Judah, that he hath seen concerning Samaria and Jerusalem:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, O peoples, all of them! Attend, O earth, and its fulness, And the Lord Jehovah is against you for a witness, The Lord from His holy temple.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For lo, Jehovah is going out from His place, And He hath come down, And hath trodden on high places of earth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Melted have been the mountains under Him, And the valleys do rend themselves, As wax from the presence of fire, As waters cast down by a slope.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For the transgression of Jacob [is] all this, And for the sins of the house of Israel. What [is] the transgression of Jacob? Is it not Samaria? And what the high places of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I have set Samaria for a heap of the field, For plantations of a vineyard, And poured out into a valley her stones, And her foundations I uncover.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And all her graven images are beaten down, And all her gifts are burnt with fire, And all her idols I make a desolation, For, from the hire of a harlot she gathered, and unto the hire of a harlot they return.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For this I lament and howl, I go spoiled and naked, I make a lamentation like dragons, And a mourning like daughters of an ostrich.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For mortal [are] her wounds, For it hath come unto Judah, It hath come to a gate of My people--to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In Gath tell ye not--in Acco weep not, In Beth-Aphrah, in dust roll thyself.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Pass over for thee, O inhabitant of Shaphir, Naked one of shame. Not gone out hath the inhabitant of Zaanan, The lamentation of Beth-Ezel doth take from you its standing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For stayed for good hath the inhabitant of Maroth, For evil hath come down from Jehovah to the gate of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Bind the chariot to a swift beast, O inhabitant of Lachish, The beginning of sin [is] she to the daughter of Zion, For in thee have been found the transgressions of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore thou givest presents to Moresheth-Gath, The houses of Achzib become a lying thing to the kings of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Yet the possessor I do bring in to thee, O inhabitant of Mareshah, To Adullam come in doth the honour of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Make bald and shave, for thy delightful sons, Enlarge thy baldness as an eagle, For they have removed from thee!</p>

</body>
</html>