<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I say, `Hear, I pray you, heads of Jacob, And ye judges of the house of Israel, Is it not for you to know the judgment?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye who are hating good, and loving evil, Taking violently their skin from off them, And their flesh from off their bones,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And who have eaten the flesh of My people, And their skin from off them have stript, And their bones they have broken, And they have spread [them] out as in a pot, And as flesh in the midst of a caldron.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then do they cry unto Jehovah, And He doth not answer them, And hideth His face from them at that time, As they have made evil their doings.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus said Jehovah concerning the prophets Who are causing My people to err, Who are biting with their teeth, And have cried `Peace,' And he who doth not give unto their mouth, They have sanctified against him war.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore a night ye have without vision, And darkness ye have without divination, And gone in hath the sun on the prophets, And black over them hath been the day.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And ashamed have been the seers, And confounded have been the diviners, And covered their lip have all of them, For their is no answer, O God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And yet I have been full of power by the Spirit of Jehovah, And of judgment, and of might, To declare to Jacob his transgression, And to Israel his sin.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hear this, I pray you, heads of the house of Jacob, And ye judges of the house of Israel, Who are making judgment abominable, And all uprightness do pervert.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Building up Zion with blood, And Jerusalem with iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Her heads for a bribe do judge, And her priests for hire do teach, And her prophets for silver divine, And on Jehovah they lean, saying, `Is not Jehovah in our midst? Evil doth not come in upon us.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, for your sake, Zion is ploughed a field, and Jerusalem is heaps, And the mount of the house [is] for high places of a forest!</p>

</body>
</html>