<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear, I pray you, that which Jehovah is saying: `Rise--strive thou with the mountains, And cause thou the hills to hear thy voice.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, O mountains, the strife of Jehovah, Ye strong ones--foundations of earth! For a strife [is] to Jehovah, with His people, And with Israel He doth reason.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O My people, what have I done to thee? And what--have I wearied thee? Testify against Me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For I brought thee up from the land of Egypt, And from the house of servants I have ransomed thee, And I send before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O My people, remember, I pray you, What counsel did Balak king of Moab, What answer him did Balaam son of Beor, (From Shittim unto Gilgal,) In order to know the righteous acts of Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> With what do I come before Jehovah? Do I bow to God Most High? Do I come before Him with burnt-offerings? With calves--sons of a year?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Is Jehovah pleased with thousands of rams? With myriads of streams of oil? Do I give my first-born [for] my transgression? The fruit of my body [for] the sin of my soul?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath declared to thee, O man, what [is] good; Yea, what is Jehovah requiring of thee, Except--to do judgment, and love kindness, And lowly to walk with thy God?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A voice of Jehovah to the city calleth, And wisdom doth fear Thy name, Hear ye the rod, and Him who appointed it.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Are there yet [in] the house of the wicked Treasures of wickedness, And the abhorred scanty ephah?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Do I reckon [it] pure with balances of wickedness? And with a bag of deceitful stones?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whose rich ones have been full of violence, And its inhabitants have spoken falsehood, And their tongue [is] deceitful in their mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I also, I have begun to smite thee, To make desolate, because of thy sins.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou--thou eatest, and thou art not satisfied, And thy pit [is] in thy midst, And thou removest, and dost not deliver, And that which thou deliverest, to a sword I give.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou--thou sowest, and thou dost not reap, Thou--thou treadest the olive, And thou pourest not out oil, And new wine--and thou drinkest not wine.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And kept habitually are the statutes of Omri, And all the work of the house of Ahab, And ye do walk in their counsels, For My giving thee for a desolation, And its inhabitants for a hissing, And the reproach of My people ye do bear!</p>

</body>
</html>