<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now gather thyself together, O daughter of troops, A siege he hath laid against us, With a rod they smite on the cheek the judge of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And thou, Beth-Lehem Ephratah, Little to be among the chiefs of Judah! From thee to Me he cometh forth--to be ruler in Israel, And his comings forth [are] of old, From the days of antiquity.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore he doth give them out till the time She who bringeth forth hath brought forth, And the remnant of his brethren return to the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he hath stood and delighted in the strength of Jehovah, In the excellency of the name of Jehovah his God, And they have remained, For now he is great unto the ends of earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And this [one] hath been peace, Asshur! when he doth come into our land, And when he doth tread in our palaces, We have raised against him seven shepherds, And eight anointed of man.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they have afflicted the land of Asshur with the sword, And the land of Nimrod at its openings, And he hath delivered from Asshur when he doth come into our land, And when he treadeth in our borders.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the remnant of Jacob hath been in the midst of many peoples, As dew from Jehovah--as showers on the herb, That waiteth not for man, nor stayeth for the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yea, the remnant of Jacob hath been among nations, In the midst of many peoples, As a lion among beasts of a forest, As a young lion among ranks of a flock, Which if it hath passed through, Hath both trodden down and hath torn, And there is no deliverer.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> High is thy hand above thine adversaries, And all thine enemies are cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And it hath come to pass in that day, An affirmation of Jehovah, I have cut off thy horses from thy midst, And I have destroyed thy chariots,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I have cut off the cities of thy land, And I have thrown down all thy fortresses,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And have cut off sorcerers out of thy hand, And observers of clouds thou hast none.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I have cut off thy graven images, And thy standing-pillars out of thy midst, And thou dost not bow thyself any more To the work of thy hands.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I have plucked up thy shrines out of thy midst, And I have destroyed thine enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I have done vengeance in anger and in fury, With the nations who have not hearkened!</p>

</body>
</html>