<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My woe [is] to me, for I have been As gatherings of summer-fruit, As gleanings of harvest, There is no cluster to eat, The first-ripe fruit desired hath my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Perished hath the kind out of the land, And upright among men--there are none, All of them for blood lie in wait, Each his brother they hunt [with] a net.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> On the evil [are] both hands to do [it] well, The prince is asking--also the judge--for recompence, And the great--he is speaking the mischief of his soul, And they wrap it up.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their best one [is] as a brier, The upright one--than a thorn-hedge, The day of thy watchmen--Thy visitation--hath come. Now is their perplexity.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Believe not in a friend, trust not in a leader, From her who is lying in thy bosom keep the openings of thy mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For a son is dishonouring a father, A daughter hath stood against her mother, A daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, The enemies of each [are] the men of his house.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I--in Jehovah I do watch, I do wait for the God of my salvation, Hear me doth my God.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou dost not rejoice over me, O mine enemy, When I have fallen, I have risen, When I sit in darkness Jehovah is a light to me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The indignation of Jehovah I do bear, For I have sinned against Him, Till that He doth plead my cause, And hath executed my judgment, He doth bring me forth to the light, I look on His righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And see doth mine enemy, And cover her doth shame, Who saith unto me, `Where [is] Jehovah thy God?' Mine eyes do look on her, Now she is for a treading-place, As mire of the outplaces.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The day to build thy walls! That day--removed is the limit.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> That day--even unto thee it doth come in, From Asshur and the cities of the fortress, And from the fortress even unto the river, And from sea to sea, and mount to mount.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the land hath been for a desolation, Because of its inhabitants, Because of the fruit of their doings.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Rule Thou Thy people with Thy rod, The flock of Thine inheritance, Dwelling alone [in] a forest in the midst of Carmel, They enjoy Bashan and Gilead as in days of old.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> According to the days of thy coming forth out of the land of Egypt, I do shew it wonderful things.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> See do nations, and they are ashamed of all their might, They lay a hand on the mouth, their ears are deaf.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They lick dust as a serpent, as fearful things of earth, They tremble from their enclosures, Of Jehovah our God they are afraid, Yea, they are afraid of Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Who [is] a God like Thee? taking away iniquity, And passing by the transgression of the remnant of His inheritance, He hath not retained for ever His anger, Because He--He delighteth [in] kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He doth turn back, He pitieth us, He doth subdue our iniquities, And Thou castest into the depths of the sea all their sins.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou givest truth to Jacob, kindness to Abraham, That thou hast sworn to our fathers, from the days of antiquity!</p>

</body>
</html>