<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nahum 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nahum 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Burden of Nineveh. The Book of the Vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A God zealous and avenging [is] Jehovah, An avenger [is] Jehovah, and possessing fury. An avenger [is] Jehovah on His adversaries, And He is watching for His enemies.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah [is] slow to anger, and great in power, And Jehovah doth not entirely acquit, In a hurricane and in a tempest [is] His way, And a cloud [is] the dust of His feet.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He is pushing against a sea, and drieth it up, Yea, all the floods He hath made dry, Languishing [are] Bashan and Carmel, Yea, the flower of Lebanon [is] languishing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Mountains have shaken because of Him, And the hills have been melted; And lifted up [is] the earth at His presence, And the world and all dwelling in it.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Before His indignation who doth stand? And who riseth up in the heat of His anger? His fury hath been poured out like fire, And the rocks have been broken by Him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Good [is] Jehovah for a strong place in a day of distress. And He knoweth those trusting in Him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And with a flood passing over, An end He maketh of its place, And His enemies doth darkness pursue.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What do we devise against Jehovah? An end He is making, arise not twice doth distress.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For while princes [are] perplexed, And with their drink are drunken, They have been consumed as stubble fully dried.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> From thee hath come forth a deviser of evil Against Jehovah--a worthless counsellor.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thus said Jehovah: Though complete, and thus many, Yet thus they have been cut off, And he hath passed away. And I afflicted thee, I afflict thee no more.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And now I break his rod from off thee, And thy bands I do draw away.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And commanded concerning thee hath Jehovah, `No more of thy name doth spread abroad, From the house of thy gods I cut off graven and molten image, I appoint thy grave, for thou hast been vile.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lo, on the mountains the feet of one proclaiming tidings, sounding peace! Celebrate, O Judah, thy festivals, complete thy vows, For add no more to pass over into thee doth the worthless, He hath been completely cut off!</p>

</body>
</html>