<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nahum 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nahum 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Come up hath a scatterer to thy face, Keep the bulwark, watch the way, Strengthen the loins, strengthen power mightily.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For turned back hath Jehovah to the excellency of Jacob, As [to] the excellency of Israel, For emptied them out have emptiers, And their branches they have marred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The shield of his mighty ones is become red, Men of might [are in] scarlet, With fiery torches [is] the chariot in a day of his preparation, And the firs have been caused to tremble.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In out-places shine do the chariots, They go to and fro in broad places, Their appearances [are] like torches, As lightnings they run.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He doth remember his honourable ones, They stumble in their goings, They hasten [to] its wall, and prepared is the covering.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Gates of the rivers have been opened, And the palace is dissolved.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it is established--she hath removed, She hath been brought up, And her handmaids are leading as the voice of doves, Tabering on their hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Nineveh [is] as a pool of waters, From of old it [is] --and they are fleeing! `Stand ye, stand;' and none is turning!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Seize ye silver, seize ye gold, And there is no end to the prepared things, [To] the abundance of all desirable vessels.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> She is empty, yea, emptiness and waste, And the heart hath melted, And the knees have smitten together, And great pain [is] in all loins, And the faces of all of them have gathered paleness.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Where [is] the habitation of lionesses? And a feeding-place it [is] for young lions Where walked hath a lion, an old lion, A lion's whelp, and there is none troubling.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The lion is tearing parts [for] his whelps, And is strangling for his lionesses, And he doth fill [with] prey his holes, And his habitations [with] rapine.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Lo, I [am] against thee, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts, And I have burned in smoke its chariot, And thy young lions consume doth a sword, And I have cut off from the land thy prey, And not heard any more is the voice of thy messengers!</p>

</body>
</html>