<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Habakkuk 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Habakkuk 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> On my charge I stand, and I station myself on a bulwark, and I watch to see what He doth speak against me, and what I do reply to my reproof.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jehovah answereth me and saith: `Write a vision, and explain on the tables, That he may run who is reading it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For yet the vision [is] for a season, And it breatheth for the end, and doth not lie, If it tarry, wait for it, For surely it cometh, it is not late.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lo, a presumptuous one! Not upright is his soul within him, And the righteous by his stedfastness liveth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And also, because the wine [is] treacherous, A man is haughty, and remaineth not at home, Who hath enlarged as sheol his soul, And is as death that is not satisfied, And doth gather unto itself all the nations, And doth assemble unto itselfall the peoples,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Do not these--all of them--against him a simile taken up, And a moral of acute sayings for him, And say, Woe [to] him who is multiplying [what is] not his? Till when also is he multiplying to himself heavy pledges?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Do not thy usurers instantly rise up, And those shaking thee awake up, And thou hast been for a spoil to them?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Because thou hast spoiled many nations, Spoil thee do all the remnant of the peoples, Because of man's blood, and of violence [to] the land, [To] the city, and [to] all dwelling in it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Woe [to] him who is gaining evil gain for his house, To set on high his nest, To be delivered from the hand of evil,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou hast counselled a shameful thing to thy house, To cut off many peoples, and sinful [is] thy soul.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For a stone from the wall doth cry out, And a holdfast from the wood answereth it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Woe [to] him who is building a city by blood, And establishing a city by iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Lo, is it not from Jehovah of Hosts And peoples are fatigued for fire, And nations for vanity are weary?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For full is the earth of the knowledge of the honour of Jehovah, As waters cover [the bottom of] a sea.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Woe [to] him who is giving drink to his neighbour, Pouring out thy bottle, and also making drunk, In order to look on their nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou hast been filled--shame without honour, Drink thou also, and be uncircumcised, Turn round unto thee doth the cup of the right hand of Jehovah, And shameful spewing [is] on thine honour.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For violence [to] Lebanon doth cover thee, And spoil of beasts doth affright them, Because of man's blood, and of violence [to] the land, [To] the city, and [to] all dwelling in it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What profit hath a graven image given That its former hath graven it? A molten image and teacher of falsehood, That trusted hath the former on his own formation--to make dumb idols?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Woe [to] him who is saying to wood, `Awake,' `Stir up,' to a dumb stone, It a teacher! lo, it is overlaid--gold and silver, And there is no spirit in its midst.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Jehovah [is] in His holy temple, Be silent before Him, all the earth!</p>

</body>
</html>