<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Haggai 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Haggai 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the seventh [month], in the twenty and first of the month, hath a word of Jehovah been by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Speak, I pray thee, unto Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and unto</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who among you hath been left that saw this house in its former honour? And what are ye seeing it now? Is it not, compared with it, as nothing in your eyes?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And now, be strong, O Zerubbabel, An affirmation of Jehovah, And be strong, O</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The thing that I covenanted with you, In your coming forth from Egypt, And My Spirit is remaining in your midst, fear not.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Yet once more--it [is] a little, And I am shaking the heavens and the earth, And the sea, and the dry land,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I have shaken all the nations, And they have come [to] the desire of all the nations, And I have filled this house [with] honour, Said Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Mine [is] the silver, and Mine the gold, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Greater is the honour of this latter house, Than of the former, said Jehovah of Hosts, And in this place do I give peace, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> On the twenty and fourth of the ninth [month], in the second year of Darius, hath a word of Jehovah been by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: `Ask, I pray thee, the priests [of] the law, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Lo, one doth carry holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and he hath come with his skirt against the bread, or against the pottage, or against the wine, or against the oil, or against any food--is it holy?' And the priests answer and say, `No.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Haggai saith, `If the unclean of body doth come against any of these, is it unclean?' And the priests answer and say, `It is unclean.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Haggai answereth and saith, `So [is] this people, and so [is] this nation before Me--an affirmation of Jehovah--and so [is] every work of their hands, and that which they bring near there--it is unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And now, lay [it], I pray you, to your heart, From this day, and onwards, Before the laying of stone to stone in the temple of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> From that time [one] hath come to a heap of twenty, And it hath been ten, He hath come unto the wine-fat to draw out fifty purahs, And it hath been twenty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I have smitten you with blasting, And with mildew, and with hail--All the work of your hands, And there is none of you with Me, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Set [it], I pray you, to your heart, from this day and onwards, from the twenty and fourth day of the ninth [month], even from the day that the temple of Jehovah hath been founded, set [it] to your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Is the seed yet in the barn? And hitherto the vine and the fig, And the pomegranate, and the olive-tree, Have not borne--from this day I bless.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And there is a word of Jehovah a second time unto Haggai, on the twenty and fourth of the month, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> `Speak unto Zerubbabel governor of Judah, saying: I am shaking the heavens and the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And have overturned the throne of kingdoms, And I have destroyed the strength of kingdoms of the nations, And overturned chariot and its charioteers, And come down have horses and their riders, Each by the sword of his brother.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day--an affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts, I take thee, Zerubbabel, son of Shealtiel, My servant--an affirmation of Jehovah, And have set thee as a signet, for on thee I have fixed, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts!</p>

</body>
</html>