<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Haggai 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Haggai 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, hath a word of Jehovah been by the hand of Haggai the prophet, unto Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and unto Joshua son of Josedech, thehigh priest, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus spake Jehovah of Hosts, saying: This people! --they have said, `The time hath not come, The time the house of Jehovah [is] to be built.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And there is a word of Jehovah by the hand of Haggai the prophet, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Is it time for you--you! To dwell in your covered houses, And this house to lie waste?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now, thus said Jehovah of Hosts, Set your heart to your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ye have sown much, and brought in little, To eat, and not to satiety, To drink, and not to drunkenness, To clothe, and none hath heat, And he who is hiring himself out, Is hiring himself for a bag pierced through.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Set your heart to your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Go up the mountain, and ye have brought in wood, And build the house, and I am pleased with it. And I am honoured, said Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Looking for much, and lo, little, And ye brought [it] home, and I blew on it, Wherefore? --an affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts, Because of My house that is waste, And ye are running--each to his house,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, over you refrained have the heavens from dew, And the land hath refrained its increase.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I proclaim draught on the land, And on the mountains, and on the corn, And on the new wine, and on the oil, And on what the ground doth bring forth, And on man, and on beast, And on all labour of the hands.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, and Joshua son of Josedech, the high priest, and all the remnant of the people, do hearken to the voice of Jehovah their God, and unto the words of</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Haggai, messenger of Jehovah, in messages of Jehovah, speaketh to the people, saying: `I [am] with you, an affirmation of Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jehovah doth stir up the spirit of Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua son of Josedech, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they come in, and do work in the house of Jehovah of Hosts their God,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> in the twenty and fourth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.</p>

</body>
</html>