<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lo, a day hath come to Jehovah, And divided hath been thy spoil in thy midst.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I have gathered all the nations unto Jerusalem to battle, And captured hath been the city, And spoiled have been the houses, And the women are lain with, Gone forth hath half the city in a removal, And the remnant of the people are notcut off from the city.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And gone forth hath Jehovah, And He hath fought against those nations, As in the day of His fighting in a day of conflict.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And stood have His feet, in that day, On the mount of Olives, That [is] before Jerusalem eastward, And cleft hath been the mount of Olives at its midst, To the east, and to the west, a very great valley, And removed hath the half of the mount towards the north. And its half towards the south.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And ye have fled [to] the valley of My mountains, For join doth the valley of the mountains to Azal, And ye have fled as ye fled before the shaking, In the days of Uzziah king of Judah, And come in hath Jehovah my God, All holy ones [are] with Thee.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it hath come to pass, in that day, The precious light is not, it is dense darkness,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And there hath been one day, It is known to Jehovah, not day nor night, And it hath been at evening-time--there is light.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it hath come to pass, in that day, Go forth do living waters from Jerusalem, Half of them unto the eastern sea, And half of them unto the western sea, In summer and in winter it is.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah hath become king over all the land, In that day there is one Jehovah, and His name one.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Changed is all the land as a plain, From Gebo to Rimmon, south of Jerusalem, And she hath been high, and hath dwelt in her place, Even from the gate of Benjamin To the place of the first gate, unto the front gate, And from the tower of Hananeel, Unto the wine-vats of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they have dwelt in her, And destruction is no more, And Jerusalem hath dwelt confidently.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And this is the plague with which Jehovah Doth plague all the peoples who have warred against Jerusalem, He hath consumed away its flesh, And it is standing on its feet, And its eyes are consumed in their holes, And its tongue is consumedin their mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it hath come to pass, in that day, A great destruction [from] Jehovah is among them, And they have seized each the hand of his neighbour, And gone up hath his hand against the hand of his neighbour.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And also Judah is fought with in Jerusalem, And gathered hath been the force of all the nations round about, Gold, and silver, and apparel, in great abundance.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And so is the plague of the horse, of the mule, Of the camel, and of the ass, And of all the cattle that are in these camps, As this plague.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it hath come to pass, Every one who hath been left of all the nations, Who are coming in against Jerusalem, They have also gone up from year to year, To bow themselves to the King, Jehovah of Hosts, And to celebrate the feast of the booths.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it hath come to pass, That he who doth not go up of the families of the land unto Jerusalem, To bow himself to the King, Jehovah of Hosts, Even on them there is no shower.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And if the family of Egypt go not up, nor come in, Then not on them is the plague With which Jehovah doth plague the nations That go not up to celebrate the feast of booths.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> This is the punishment of the sin of Egypt, And the punishment of the sin of all the nations, That go not up to celebrate the feast of booths.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In that day there is on bells of the horse, `Holy to Jehovah,' And the pots in the house of Jehovah Have been as bowls before the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And every pot in Jerusalem, and in Judah, Have been holy to Jehovah of Hosts, And all those sacrificing have come in, And have taken of them, and boiled in them, And there is no merchant any more in the house of Jehovah of Hosts in that day!</p>

</body>
</html>