<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I lift up mine eyes, and look, and lo, a man, and in his hand a measuring line.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I say, `Whither are thou going?' And he saith unto me, `To measure Jerusalem, to see how much [is] its breadth, and how much its length.'</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And lo, the messenger who is speaking with me is going out, and another messenger is going out to meet him,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and he saith unto him, `Run, speak unto this young man, saying: Unwalled villages inhabit doth Jerusalem, From the abundance of man and beast in her midst.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I--I am to her--an affirmation of Jehovah, A wall of fire round about, And for honour I am in her midst.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ho, ho, and flee from the land of the north, An affirmation of Jehovah, For, as the four winds of the heavens, I have spread you abroad, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ho, Zion, be delivered who art dwelling [with] the daughter of Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For thus said Jehovah of Hosts: After honour He hath sent me unto the nations who are spoiling you, For he who is coming against you, Is coming against the daughter of His eye.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For lo, I am waving my hand against them, And they have been a spoil to their servants. And ye have known that Jehovah of Hosts hath sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Singe, and rejoice, O daughter of Zion, For lo, I am coming, and have dwelt in thy midst, An affirmation of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And joined have been many nations unto Jehovah in that day, And they have been to Me for a people, And I have dwelt in thy midst, And thou hast known that Jehovah of Hosts hath sent me unto thee.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jehovah hath inherited Judah, His portion on the holy ground, And He hath fixed again on Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hush, all flesh, because of Jehovah, For He hath been roused up from His holy habitation!'</p>

</body>
</html>