<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there is a word of Jehovah of Hosts, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> `Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: I have been zealous for Zion with great zeal, With great heat I have been zealous for her.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thus said Jehovah: I have turned back unto Zion, And I have dwelt in the midst of Jerusalem, And Jerusalem hath been called `The city of truth,' And the mountain of Jehovah of Hosts, `The holy mountain.'</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Again dwell do old men and old women, In broad places of Jerusalem, And each his staff in his hand, Because of abundance of days.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And broad places of the city are full of boys and girls, Playing in its broad places.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Surely it is wonderful in the eyes of the remnant of this people in those days, Also in Mine eyes it is wonderful, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Lo, I am saving My people from the land of the rising, And from the land of the going in, of the sun,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I have brought them in, They have dwelt in the midst of Jerusalem, And they have been to Me for a people, And I am to them for God, In truth and in righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Let your hands be strong, Ye who are hearing in these days these words from the mouth of the prophets, That in the day the house of Jehovah of Hosts Hath been founded, the temple [is] to be built.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For, before those days there hath been no hiring of man, Yea, a hiring of beasts there is none; And to him who is going out, And to him who is coming in, There is no peace because of the adversary, And I send all men--each against his neighbour.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now, not as [in] the former days [am] I to the remnant of this people, An affirmation of Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because of the sowing of peace, The vine doth give her fruit, And the earth doth give her increase, And the heavens do give their dew, And I have caused the remnant of this people To inherit all these.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it hath come to pass, As ye have been a reviling among nations, O house of Judah, and house of Israel, So I save you, and ye have been a blessing, Do not fear, let your hands be strong.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For, thus said Jehovah of Hosts, As I did purpose to do evil to you, When your fathers made Me wroth, Said Jehovah of Hosts, and I did not repent,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So I have turned back, I have purposed, in these days, To do good with Jerusalem, And with the house of Judah--fear not!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These [are] the things that ye do: Speak ye truth each with his neighbour, Truth and peaceful judgment judge in your gates,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And each the evil of his neighbour ye do not devise in your heart, And a false oath ye do not love, For all these [are] things that I have hated, An affirmation of Jehovah.'</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And there is a word of Jehovah of Hosts unto me, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> `Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: The fast of the fourth, and the fast of the fifth, and the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth [months], are to the house of Judah for joy and for rejoicing, and for pleasant appointed seasons, and the truth and the peace they have loved.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: Yet come do peoples, and inhabitants of many cities,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Yea, gone have inhabitants of one To another, saying: We go diligently, To appease the face of Jehovah, To seek Jehovah of Hosts--I go, even I.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Yea, come in have many peoples, and mighty nations, To seek Jehovah of Hosts in Jerusalem, And to appease the face of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thus said Jehovah of Hosts: In those days take hold do ten men of all languages of the nations, Yea, they have taken hold on the skirt of a man, a Jew, saying: We go with you, for we heard God [is] with you!</p>

</body>
</html>