<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> They asked of Jehovah rain in a time of latter rain, Jehovah is making lightnings, And rain [in] showers He doth give to them. To each--the herb in the field.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Because the teraphim did speak iniquity, And the diviners have seen a falsehood, And dreams of the vanity they speak, [With] vanity they give comfort, Therefore they have journeyed as a flock, They are afflicted, for there is no shepherd.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Against the shepherds did Mine anger burn, And against the he-goats I lay a charge, For inspected hath Jehovah of Hosts His flock, the house of Judah, And set them as His beauteous horse in battle.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> From him [is] a corner-stone, From him a nail, from him a battle-bow, From him goeth forth every exactor together.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they have been as heroes, Treading in mire of out-places in battle, And they have fought, for Jehovah [is] with them, And have put to shame riders of horses.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I have made mighty the house of Judah, And the house of Joseph I do save, And I have caused them to dwell, for I have loved them, And they have been as [if] I had not cast them off, For I [am] Jehovah their God, And I answer them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Ephraim hath been as a hero, And rejoiced hath their heart as wine, And their sons see, and they have rejoiced, Rejoice doth their heart in Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I hist for them, and I gather them, For I have redeemed them, And they have multiplied as they did multiply.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I sow them among peoples, And in far-off places they remember Me, And they have lived with their sons, And they have turned back.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I have brought them back from the land of Egypt, And from Asshur I do gather them, And unto the land of Gilead and Lebanon I do bring them in, And there is not found for them [space].</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And He hath passed over through the sea, And hath pressed and smitten billows in the sea, And dried up have been all depths of a flood, And brought down hath been the excellency of Asshur, And the rod of Egypt doth turn aside.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I have made them mighty in Jehovah, And in His name they walk up and down, An affirmation of Jehovah!</p>

</body>
</html>