<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Malachi 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Malachi 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And now, to you [is] this charge, O priests,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If ye hearken not, and if ye lay [it] not to heart, To give honour to My name, said Jehovah of Hosts, I have sent against you the curse, And I have cursed your blessings, Yea, I have also cursed it, Because ye are not laying [it] to heart.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lo, I am pushing away before you the seed, And have scattered dung before your faces, Dung of your festivals, And it hath taken you away with it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And ye have known that I have sent unto you this charge, For My covenant being with Levi, Said Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My covenant hath been with him of life and of peace, And I make them to him a fear, and he doth fear Me, And because of My name he hath been affrighted.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The law of truth hath been in his mouth, And perverseness hath not been found in his lips, In peace and in uprightness he walked with Me, And many he brought back from iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the lips of a priest preserve knowledge, And law they do seek from his mouth, For a messenger of Jehovah of Hosts he [is].</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And ye, ye have turned from the way, Ye have caused many to stumble in the law, Ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, Said Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I also, I have made you despised and low before all the people, Because ye are not keeping My ways, And are accepting persons in the law.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Have we not all one father? Hath not our God prepared us? Wherefore do we deal treacherously, Each against his brother, To pollute the covenant of our fathers?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Dealt treacherously hath Judah, And abomination hath been done in Israel, and in Jerusalem, For polluted hath Judah the holy thing of Jehovah, That He hath loved, and hath married the daughter of a strange god.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Cut off doth Jehovah the man who doth it, Tempter and tempted--from the tents of Jacob, Even he who is bringing nigh a present to Jehovah of Hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And this a second time ye do, Covering with tears the altar of Jehovah, With weeping and groaning, Because there is no more turning unto the present, Or receiving of a pleasing thing from your hand.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And ye have said, `Wherefore?' Because Jehovah hath testified between thee And the wife of thy youth, That thou hast dealt treacherously against her, And she thy companion, and thy covenant-wife.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And He did not make one [only], And He hath the remnant of the Spirit. And what [is] the one [alone]! He is seeking a godly seed. And ye have been watchful over your spirit, And with the wife of thy youth, None doth deal treacherously.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For [I] hate sending away, said Jehovah, God of Israel, And He [who] hath covered violence with his clothing, said Jehovah of Hosts, And ye have been watchful over your spirit, And ye do not deal treacherously.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Ye have wearied Jehovah with your words, And ye have said: `In what have we wearied Him?' In your saying: `Every evil-doer [is] good in the eyes of Jehovah, And in them He is delighting,' Or, `Where [is] the God of judgment?'</p>

</body>
</html>