<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `For the reign of the heavens is like to a man, a householder, who went forth with the morning to hire workmen for his vineyard,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and having agreed with the workmen for a denary a day, he sent them into his vineyard.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> `And having gone forth about the third hour, he saw others standing in the marketplace idle,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and to these he said, Go ye--also ye--to the vineyard, and whatever may be righteous I will give you;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and they went away. `Again, having gone forth about the sixth and the ninth hour, he did in like manner.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And about the eleventh hour, having gone forth, he found others standing idle, and saith to them, Why here have ye stood all the day idle?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> they say to him, Because no one did hire us; he saith to them, Go ye--ye also--to the vineyard, and whatever may be righteous ye shall receive.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `And evening having come, the lord of the vineyard saith to his steward, Call the workmen, and pay them the reward, having begun from the last--unto the first.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they of about the eleventh hour having come, did receive each a denary.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `And the first having come, did suppose that they shall receive more, and they received, they also, each a denary,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and having received [it], they were murmuring against the householder, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> that These, the last, wrought one hour, and thou didst make them equal to us, who were bearing the burden of the day--and the heat.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> `And he answering said to one of them, Comrade, I do no unrighteousness to thee; for a denary didst not thou agree with me?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> take that which is thine, and go; and I will to give to this, the last, also as to thee;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> is it not lawful to me to do what I will in mine own? is thine eye evil because I am good?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So the last shall be first, and the first last, for many are called, and few chosen.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus going up to Jerusalem, took the twelve disciples by themselves in the way, and said to them,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `Lo, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man shall be delivered to the chief priests and scribes,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the nations to mock, and to scourge, and to crucify, and the third day he will rise again.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then came near to him the mother of the sons of Zebedee, with her sons, bowing and asking something from him,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and he said to her, `What wilt thou?' She saith to him, `Say, that they may sit-- these my two sons--one on thy right hand, and one on the left, in thy reign.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jesus answering said, `Ye have not known what ye ask for yourselves; are ye able to drink of the cup that I am about to drink? and with the baptism that I am baptized with, to be baptized?' They say to him, `We are able.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he saith to them, `Of my cup indeed ye shall drink, and with the baptism that I am baptized with ye shall be baptized; but to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give, but--to those for whom it hath been prepared by my father.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the ten having heard, were much displeased with the two brothers,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and Jesus having called them near, said, `Ye have known that the rulers of the nations do exercise lordship over them, and those great do exercise authority over them,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> but not so shall it be among you, but whoever may will among you to become great, let him be your ministrant;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and whoever may will among you to be first, let him be your servant;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> even as the Son of Man did not come to be ministered to, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they going forth from Jericho, there followed him a great multitude,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and lo, two blind men sitting by the way, having heard that Jesus doth pass by, cried, saying, `Deal kindly with us, sir--Son of David.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the multitude charged them that they might be silent, and they cried out the more, saying, `Deal kindly with us sir--Son of David.'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And having stood, Jesus called them, and said, `What will ye [that] I may do to you?'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> they say to him, `Sir, that our eyes may be opened;'</p>

<p><a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and having been moved with compassion, Jesus touched their eyes, and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed him.</p>

</body>
</html>