<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And having called to him his twelve disciples, he gave to them power over unclean spirits, so as to be casting them out, and to be healing every sickness, and every malady.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And of the twelve apostles the names are these: first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James of Zebedee, and John his brother;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the tax-gatherer; James of Alpheus, and Lebbeus who was surnamed Thaddeus;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Simon the Cananite, and Judas Iscariot, who did also deliver him up.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> These twelve did Jesus send forth, having given command to them, saying, `To the way of the nations go not away, and into a city of the Samaritans go not in,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and be going rather unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> `And, going on, proclaim saying that, the reign of the heavens hath come nigh;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> infirm ones be healing, lepers be cleansing, dead be raising, demons be casting out-- freely ye did receive, freely give.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> `Provide not gold, nor silver, nor brass in your girdles,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> nor scrip for the way, nor two coats, nor sandals, nor staff--for the workman is worthy of his nourishment.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> `And into whatever city or village ye may enter, inquire ye who in it is worthy, and there abide, till ye may go forth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And coming to the house salute it,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and if indeed the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it; and if it be not worthy, let your peace turn back to you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `And whoever may not receive you nor hear your words, coming forth from that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> verily I say to you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment than for that city.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `Lo, I do send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves, be ye therefore wise as the serpents, and simple as the doves.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And, take ye heed of men, for they will give you up to sanhedrims, and in their synagogues they will scourge you,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and before governors and kings ye shall be brought for my sake, for a testimony to them and to the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> `And whenever they may deliver you up, be not anxious how or what ye may speak, for it shall be given you in that hour what ye shall speak;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for ye are not the speakers, but the Spirit of your Father that is speaking in you.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> `And brother shall deliver up brother to death, and father child, and children shall rise up against parents, and shall put them to death,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and ye shall be hated by all because of my name, but he who hath endured to the end, he shall be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `And whenever they may persecute you in this city, flee to the other, for verily I say to you, ye may not have completed the cities of Israel till the Son of Man may come.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> `A disciple is not above the teacher, nor a servant above his lord;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> sufficient to the disciple that he may be as his teacher, and the servant as his lord; if the master of the house they did call Beelzeboul, how much more those of his household?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> `Ye may not, therefore, fear them, for there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed, and hid, that shall not be known;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> that which I tell you in the darkness, speak in the light, and that which you hear at the ear, proclaim on the house-tops.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> `And be not afraid of those killing the body, and are not able to kill the soul, but fear rather Him who is able both soul and body to destroy in gehenna.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> `Are not two sparrows sold for an assar? and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and of you--even the hairs of the head are all numbered;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> be not therefore afraid, than many sparrows ye are better.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> `Every one, therefore, who shall confess in me before men, I also will confess in him before my Father who is in the heavens;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and whoever shall deny me before men, I also will deny him before my Father who is in the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> `Ye may not suppose that I came to put peace on the earth; I did not come to put peace, but a sword;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> for I came to set a man at variance against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and the enemies of a man are those of his household.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> `He who is loving father or mother above me, is not worthy of me, and he who is loving son or daughter above me, is not worthy of me,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and whoever doth not receive his cross and follow after me, is not worthy of me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> `He who found his life shall lose it, and he who lost his life for my sake shall find it.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> `He who is receiving you doth receive me, and he who is receiving me doth receive Him who sent me,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> he who is receiving a prophet in the name of a prophet, shall receive a prophet's reward, and he who is receiving a righteous man in the name of a righteous man, shall receive a righteous man's reward,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and whoever may give to drink to one of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say to you, he may not lose his reward.'</p>

</body>
</html>