<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Jesus spake to the multitudes, and to his disciples,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> saying, `On the seat of Moses sat down the scribes and the Pharisees;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> all, then, as much as they may say to you to observe, observe and do, but according to their works do not, for they say, and do not;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> for they bind together burdens heavy and grievous to be borne, and lay upon the shoulders of men, but with their finger they will not move them.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `And all their works they do to be seen by men, and they make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the fringes of their garments,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> they love also the chief couches in the supper, and the chief seats in the synagogues,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the salutations in the market-places, and to be called by men, Rabbi, Rabbi.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `And ye--ye may not be called Rabbi, for one is your director--the Christ, and all ye are brethren;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and ye may not call [any] your father on the earth, for one is your Father, who is in the heavens,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> nor may ye be called directors, for one is your director--the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the greater of you shall be your ministrant,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and whoever shall exalt himself shall be humbled, and whoever shall humble himself shall be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> `Woe to you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye shut up the reign of the heavens before men, for ye do not go in, nor those going in do ye suffer to enter.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `Woe to you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye eat up the houses of the widows, and for a pretence make long prayers, because of this ye shall receive more abundant judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> `Woe to you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye go round the sea and the dry land to make one proselyte, and whenever it may happen--ye make him a son of gehenna twofold more than yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `Woe to you, blind guides, who are saying, Whoever may swear by the sanctuary, it is nothing, but whoever may swear by the gold of the sanctuary--is debtor!</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fools and blind! for which [is] greater, the gold, or the sanctuary that is sanctifying the gold?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `And, whoever may swear by the altar, it is nothing; but whoever may swear by the gift that is upon it--is debtor!</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Fools and blind! for which [is] greater, the gift, or the altar that is sanctifying the gift?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `He therefore who did swear by the altar, doth swear by it, and by all things on it;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and he who did swear by the sanctuary, doth swear by it, and by Him who is dwelling in it;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and he who did swear by the heaven, doth swear by the throne of God, and by Him who is sitting upon it.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `Woe to you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye give tithe of the mint, and the dill, and the cumin, and did neglect the weightier things of the Law--the judgment, and the kindness, and the faith; these it behoved [you] to do, and those not to neglect.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> `Blind guides! who are straining out the gnat, and the camel are swallowing.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> `Woe to you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye make clean the outside of the cup and the plate, and within they are full of rapine and incontinence.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> `Blind Pharisee! cleanse first the inside of the cup and the plate, that the outside of them also may become clean.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> `Woe to you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye are like to whitewashed sepulchres, which outwardly indeed do appear beautiful, and within are full of bones of dead men, and of all uncleanness;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> so also ye outwardly indeed do appear to men righteous, and within ye are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> `Woe to you, Scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye build the sepulchres of the prophets, and adorn the tombs of the righteous,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and say, If we had been in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So that ye testify to yourselves, that ye are sons of them who did murder the prophets;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and ye--ye fill up the measure of your fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> `Serpents! brood of vipers! how may ye escape from the judgment of the gehenna?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> `Because of this, lo, I send to you prophets, and wise men, and scribes, and of them ye will kill and crucify, and of them ye will scourge in your synagogues, and will pursue from city to city;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> that on you may come all the righteous blood being poured out on the earth from the blood of Abel the righteous, unto the blood of Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the sanctuary and the altar:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> verily I say to you, all these things shall come upon this generation.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> `Jerusalem, Jerusalem, that art killing the prophets, and stoning those sent unto thee, how often did I will to gather thy children together, as a hen doth gather her own chickens under the wings, and ye did not will.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Lo, left desolate to you is your house;</p>

<p><a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> for I say to you, ye may not see me henceforth, till ye may say, Blessed [is] he who is coming in the name of the Lord.'</p>

</body>
</html>