<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Pharisees and Sadducees having come, tempting, did question him, to shew to them a sign from the heaven,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he answering said to them, `Evening having come, ye say, Fair weather, for the heaven is red,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and at morning, Foul weather to-day, for the heaven is red--gloomy; hypocrites, the face of the heavens indeed ye do know to discern, but the signs of the times ye are not able!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `A generation evil and adulterous doth seek a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it, except the sign of Jonah the prophet;' and having left them he went away.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And his disciples having come to the other side, forgot to take loaves,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Jesus said to them, `Beware, and take heed of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees;'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and they were reasoning in themselves, saying, `Because we took no loaves.'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jesus having known, said to them, `Why reason ye in yourselves, ye of little faith, because ye took no loaves?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> do ye not yet understand, nor remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many hand-baskets ye took up?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> nor the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> how do ye not understand that I did not speak to you of bread--to take heed of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees?'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then they understood that he did not say to take heed of the leaven of the bread, but of the teaching, of the Pharisees and Sadducees.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jesus, having come to the parts of Caesarea Philippi, was asking his disciples, saying, `Who do men say me to be--the Son of Man?'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and they said, `Some, John the Baptist, and others, Elijah, and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He saith to them, `And ye--who do ye say me to be?'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and Simon Peter answering said, `Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus answering said to him, `Happy art thou, Simon Bar-Jona, because flesh and blood did not reveal [it] to thee, but my Father who is in the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> `And I also say to thee, that thou art a rock, and upon this rock I will build my assembly, and gates of Hades shall not prevail against it;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and I will give to thee the keys of the reign of the heavens, and whatever thou mayest bind upon the earth shall be having been bound in the heavens, and whatever thou mayest loose upon the earth shall be having been loosed in the heavens.'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then did he charge his disciples that they may say to no one that he is Jesus the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> From that time began Jesus to shew to his disciples that it is necessary for him to go away to Jerusalem, and to suffer many things from the elders, and chief priests, and scribes, and to be put to death, and the third day to rise.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And having taken him aside, Peter began to rebuke him, saying, `Be kind to thyself, sir; this shall not be to thee;'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and he having turned, said to Peter, `Get thee behind me, adversary! thou art a stumbling-block to me, for thou dost not mind the things of God, but the things of men.'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then said Jesus to his disciples, `If any one doth will to come after me, let him disown himself, and take up his cross, and follow me,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> for whoever may will to save his life, shall lose it, and whoever may lose his life for my sake shall find it,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for what is a man profited if he may gain the whole world, but of his life suffer loss? or what shall a man give as an exchange for his life?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> `For, the Son of Man is about to come in the glory of his Father, with his messengers, and then he will reward each, according to his work.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Verily I say to you, there are certain of those standing here who shall not taste of death till they may see the Son of Man coming in his reign.'</p>

</body>
</html>