<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the sabbath having past, Mary the Magdalene, and Mary of James, and Salome, bought spices, that having come, they may anoint him,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and early in the morning of the first of the sabbaths, they come unto the sepulchre, at the rising of the sun,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and they said among themselves, `Who shall roll away for us the stone out of the door of the sepulchre?'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And having looked, they see that the stone hath been rolled away--for it was very great,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and having entered into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right hand, arrayed in a long white robe, and they were amazed.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he saith to them, `Be not amazed, ye seek Jesus the Nazarene, the crucified: he did rise--he is not here; lo, the place where they laid him!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and go, say to his disciples, and Peter, that he doth go before you to Galilee; there ye shall see him, as he said to you.'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And, having come forth quickly, they fled from the sepulchre, and trembling and amazement had seized them, and to no one said they anything, for they were afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he, having risen in the morning of the first of the sabbaths, did appear first to Mary the Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven demons;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> she having gone, told those who had been with him, mourning and weeping;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and they, having heard that he is alive, and was seen by her, did not believe.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And after these things, to two of them, as they are going into a field, walking, he was manifested in another form,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and they having gone, told to the rest; not even them did they believe.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Afterwards, as they are reclining (at meat), he was manifested to the eleven, and did reproach their unbelief and stiffness of heart, because they believed not those having seen him being raised;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and he said to them, `Having gone to all the world, proclaim the good news to all the creation;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> he who hath believed, and hath been baptized, shall be saved; and he who hath not believed, shall be condemned.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `And signs shall accompany those believing these things; in my name demons they shall cast out; with new tongues they shall speak;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> serpents they shall take up; and if any deadly thing they may drink, it shall not hurt them; on the ailing they shall lay hands, and they shall be well.'</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Lord, then, indeed, after speaking to them, was received up to the heaven, and sat on the right hand of God;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and they, having gone forth, did preach everywhere, the Lord working with [them], and confirming the word, through the signs following. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>