<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he entered again into the synagogue, and there was there a man having the hand withered,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and they were watching him, whether on the sabbaths he will heal him, that they might accuse him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he saith to the man having the hand withered, `Rise up in the midst.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he saith to them, `Is it lawful on the sabbaths to do good, or to do evil? life to save, or to kill?' but they were silent.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And having looked round upon them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their heart, he saith to the man, `Stretch forth thy hand;' and he stretched forth, and his hand was restored whole as the other;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the Pharisees having gone forth, immediately, with the Herodians, were taking counsel against him how they might destroy him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jesus withdrew with his disciples unto the sea, and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judea,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and from Jerusalem, and from Idumea and beyond the Jordan; and they about Tyre and Sidon--a great multitude--having heard how great things he was doing, came unto him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said to his disciples that a little boat may wait on him, because of the multitude, that they may not press upon him,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for he did heal many, so that they threw themselves on him, in order to touch him--as many as had plagues;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the unclean spirits, when they were seeing him, were falling down before him, and were crying, saying--`Thou art the Son of God;'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and many times he was charging them that they might not make him manifest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he goeth up to the mountain, and doth call near whom he willed, and they went away to him;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and he appointed twelve, that they may be with him, and that he may send them forth to preach,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and to have power to heal the sicknesses, and to cast out the demons.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he put on Simon the name Peter;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and James of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, and he put on them names-- Boanerges, that is, `Sons of thunder;'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James of Alpheus, and Thaddeus, and Simon the Cananite,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and Judas Iscariot, who did also deliver him up; and they come into a house.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And come together again doth a multitude, so that they are not able even to eat bread;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and his friends having heard, went forth to lay hold on him, for they said that he was beside himself,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and the scribes who [are] from Jerusalem having come down, said--`He hath Beelzeboul,' and--`By the ruler of the demons he doth cast out the demons.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And, having called them near, in similes he said to them, `How is the Adversary able to cast out the Adversary?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and if a kingdom against itself be divided, that kingdom cannot be made to stand;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and if a house against itself be divided, that house cannot be made to stand;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and if the Adversary did rise against himself, and hath been divided, he cannot be made to stand, but hath an end.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> `No one is able the vessels of the strong man--having entered into his house--to spoil, if first he may not bind the strong man, and then his house he will spoil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> `Verily I say to you, that all the sins shall be forgiven to the sons of men, and evil speakings with which they might speak evil,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but whoever may speak evil in regard to the Holy Spirit hath not forgiveness--to the age, but is in danger of age-during judgment;'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> because they said, `He hath an unclean spirit.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then come do his brethren and mother, and standing without, they sent unto him, calling him,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and a multitude was sitting about him, and they said to him, `Lo, thy mother and thy brethren without do seek thee.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he answered them, saying, `Who is my mother, or my brethren?'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And having looked round in a circle to those sitting about him, he saith, `Lo, my mother and my brethren!</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> for whoever may do the will of God, he is my brother, and my sister, and mother.'</p>

</body>
</html>