<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when they come nigh to Jerusalem, to Bethphage, and Bethany, unto the mount of the Olives, he sendeth forth two of his disciples,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and saith to them, `Go away to the village that is over-against you, and immediately, entering into it, ye shall find a colt tied, on which no one of men hath sat, having loosed it, bring [it]:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and if any one may say to you, Why do ye this? say ye that the lord hath need of it, and immediately he will send it hither.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they went away, and found the colt tied at the door without, by the two ways, and they loose it,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and certain of those standing there said to them, `What do ye--loosing the colt?'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and they said to them as Jesus commanded, and they suffered them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they brought the colt unto Jesus, and did cast upon it their garments, and he sat upon it,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and many did spread their garments in the way, and others were cutting down branches from the trees, and were strewing in the way.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And those going before and those following were crying out, saying, `Hosanna! blessed [is] he who is coming in the name of the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> blessed is the coming reign, in the name of the Lord, of our father David; Hosanna in the highest.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple, and having looked round on all things, it being now evening, he went forth to Bethany with the twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And on the morrow, they having come forth from Bethany, he hungered,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and having seen a fig-tree afar off having leaves, he came, if perhaps he shall find anything in it, and having come to it, he found nothing except leaves, for it was not a time of figs,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Jesus answering said to it, `No more from thee--to the age--may any eat fruit;' and his disciples were hearing.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they come to Jerusalem, and Jesus having gone into the temple, began to cast forth those selling and buying in the temple, and the tables of the money-changers and the seats of those selling the doves, he overthrew,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and he did not suffer that any might bear a vessel through the temple,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and he was teaching, saying to them, `Hath it not been written--My house a house of prayer shall be called for all the nations, and ye did make it a den of robbers?'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the scribes and the chief priests heard, and they were seeking how they shall destroy him, for they were afraid of him, because all the multitude was astonished at his teaching;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and when evening came, he was going forth without the city.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And in the morning, passing by, they saw the fig-tree having been dried up from the roots,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Peter having remembered saith to him, `Rabbi, lo, the fig-tree that thou didst curse is dried up.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jesus answering saith to them, `Have faith of God;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for verily I say to you, that whoever may say to this mount, Be taken up, and be cast into the sea, and may not doubt in his heart, but may believe that the things that he saith do come to pass, it shall be to him whatever he may say.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Because of this I say to you, all whatever--praying--ye do ask, believe that ye receive, and it shall be to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> `And whenever ye may stand praying, forgive, if ye have anything against any one, that your Father also who is in the heavens may forgive you your trespasses;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and, if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father who is in the heavens forgive your trespasses.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they come again to Jerusalem, and in the temple, as he is walking, there come unto him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and they say to him, `By what authority dost thou these things? and who gave thee this authority that these things thou mayest do?'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jesus answering said to them, `I will question you--I also--one word; and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> the baptism of John--from heaven was it? or from men? answer me.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they were reasoning with themselves, saying, `If we may say, From heaven, he will say, Wherefore, then, did ye not believe him?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But if we may say, From men,' --they were fearing the people, for all were holding</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and answering they say to Jesus, `We have not known;' and Jesus answering saith to them, `Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.'</p>

</body>
</html>