<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And all the tax-gatherers and the sinners were coming nigh to him, to hear him,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and the Pharisees and the scribes were murmuring, saying--This one doth receive sinners, and doth eat with them.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he spake unto them this simile, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> `What man of you having a hundred sheep, and having lost one out of them, doth not leave behind the ninety-nine in the wilderness, and go on after the lost one, till he may find it?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and having found, he doth lay [it] on his shoulders rejoicing,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and having come to the house, he doth call together the friends and the neighbours, saying to them, Rejoice with me, because I found my sheep--the lost one.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> `I say to you, that so joy shall be in the heaven over one sinner reforming, rather than over ninety-nine righteous men, who have no need of reformation.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `Or what woman having ten drachms, if she may lose one drachm, doth not light a lamp, and sweep the house, and seek carefully till that she may find?</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and having found, she doth call together the female friends and the neighbours, saying, Rejoice with me, for I found the drachm that I lost.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `So I say to you, joy doth come before the messengers of God over one sinner reforming.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said, `A certain man had two sons,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and the younger of them said to the father, Father, give me the portion of the substance falling to [me], and he divided to them the living.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> `And not many days after, having gathered all together, the younger son went abroad to a far country, and there he scattered his substance, living riotously;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and he having spent all, there came a mighty famine on that country, and himself began to be in want;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and having gone on, he joined himself to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him to the fields to feed swine,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and he was desirous to fill his belly from the husks that the swine were eating, and no one was giving to him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `And having come to himself, he said, How many hirelings of my father have a superabundance of bread, and I here with hunger am perishing!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> having risen, I will go on unto my father, and will say to him, Father, I did sin--to the heaven, and before thee,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and no more am I worthy to be called thy son; make me as one of thy hirelings.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `And having risen, he went unto his own father, and he being yet far distant, his father saw him, and was moved with compassion, and having ran he fell upon his neck and kissed him;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and the son said to him, Father, I did sin--to the heaven, and before thee, and no more am I worthy to be called thy son.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> `And the father said unto his servants, Bring forth the first robe, and clothe him, and give a ring for his hand, and sandals for the feet;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and having brought the fatted calf, kill [it], and having eaten, we may be merry,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> because this my son was dead, and did live again, and he was lost, and was found; and they began to be merry.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> `And his elder son was in a field, and as, coming, he drew nigh to the house, he heard music and dancing,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and having called near one of the young men, he was inquiring what these things might be,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and he said to him--Thy brother is arrived, and thy father did kill the fatted calf, because in health he did receive him back.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> `And he was angry, and would not go in, therefore his father, having come forth, was entreating him;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and he answering said to the father, Lo, so many years I do serve thee, and never thy command did I transgress, and to me thou didst never give a kid, that with my friends I might make merry;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> but when thy son--this one who did devour thy living with harlots--came, thou didst kill to him the fatted calf.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> `And he said to him, Child, thou art always with me, and all my things are thine;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> but to be merry, and to be glad, it was needful, because this thy brother was dead, and did live again, he was lost, and was found.'</p>

</body>
</html>