<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> `I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> every branch in me not bearing fruit, He doth take it away, and every one bearing fruit, He doth cleanse by pruning it, that it may bear more fruit;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> already ye are clean, because of the word that I have spoken to you;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> remain in me, and I in you, as the branch is not able to bear fruit of itself, if it may not remain in the vine, so neither ye, if ye may not remain in me.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> `I am the vine, ye the branches; he who is remaining in me, and I in him, this one doth bear much fruit, because apart from me ye are not able to do anything;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> if any one may not remain in me, he was cast forth without as the branch, and was withered, and they gather them, and cast to fire, and they are burned;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> if ye may remain in me, and my sayings in you may remain, whatever ye may wish ye shall ask, and it shall be done to you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `In this was my Father glorified, that ye may bear much fruit, and ye shall become my disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> According as the Father did love me, I also loved you, remain in my love;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> if my commandments ye may keep, ye shall remain in my love, according as I the commands of my Father have kept, and do remain in His love;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> these things I have spoken to you, that my joy in you may remain, and your joy may be full.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `This is my command, that ye love one another, according as I did love you;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> greater love than this hath no one, that any one his life may lay down for his friends;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> ye are my friends, if ye may do whatever I command you;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> no more do I call you servants, because the servant hath not known what his lord doth, and you I have called friends, because all things that I heard from my Father, I did make known to you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> `Ye did not choose out me, but I chose out you, and did appoint you, that ye might go away, and might bear fruit, and your fruit might remain, that whatever ye may ask of the Father in my name, He may give you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> `These things I command you, that ye love one another;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> if the world doth hate you, ye know that it hath hated me before you;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> if of the world ye were, the world its own would have been loving, and because of the world ye are not--but I chose out of the world--because of this the world hateth you.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> `Remember the word that I said to you, A servant is not greater than his lord; if me they did persecute, you also they will persecute; if my word they did keep, yours also they will keep;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but all these things will they do to you, because of my name, because they have not known Him who sent me;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> if I had not come and spoken to them, they were not having sin; but now pretext they have not for their sin.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> `He who is hating me, doth hate also my Father;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> if I did not do among them the works that no other hath done, they were not having sin, and now they have both seen and hated both me and my Father;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but--that the word may be fulfilled that was written in their law--They hated me without a cause.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> `And when the Comforter may come, whom I will send to you from the Father--the Spirit of truth, who from the Father doth come forth, he will testify of me;</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and ye also do testify, because from the beginning ye are with me.</p>

</body>
</html>