<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And him who is weak in the faith receive ye--not to determinations of reasonings;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> one doth believe that he may eat all things--and he who is weak doth eat herbs;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> let not him who is eating despise him who is not eating: and let not him who is not eating judge him who is eating, for God did receive him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou--who art thou that art judging another's domestic? to his own master he doth stand or fall; and he shall be made to stand, for God is able to make him stand.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> One doth judge one day above another, and another doth judge every day [alike]; let each in his own mind be fully assured.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He who is regarding the day, to the Lord he doth regard [it], and he who is not regarding the day, to the Lord he doth not regard [it]. He who is eating, to the Lord he doth eat, for he doth give thanks to God; and he who is not eating, to the Lord he doth not eat, and doth give thanks to God.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For none of us to himself doth live, and none to himself doth die;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for both, if we may live, to the Lord we live; if also we may die, to the Lord we die; both then if we may live, also if we may die, we are the Lord's;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for because of this Christ both died and rose again, and lived again, that both of dead and of living he may be Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And thou, why dost thou judge thy brother? or again, thou, why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand at the tribunal of the Christ;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for it hath been written, `I live! saith the Lord--to Me bow shall every knee, and every tongue shall confess to God;'</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> so, then, each of us concerning himself shall give reckoning to God;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> no longer, therefore, may we judge one another, but this judge ye rather, not to put a stumbling-stone before the brother, or an offence.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have known, and am persuaded, in the Lord Jesus, that nothing [is] unclean of itself, except to him who is reckoning anything to be unclean--to that one [it is] unclean;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and if through victuals thy brother is grieved, no more dost thou walk according to love; do not with thy victuals destroy that one for whom Christ died.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let not, then, your good be evil spoken of,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for the reign of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for he who in these things is serving the Christ, [is] acceptable to God and approved of men.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So, then, the things of peace may we pursue, and the things of building up one another;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for the sake of victuals cast not down the work of God; all things, indeed, [are] pure, but evil [is] to the man who is eating through stumbling.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Right [it is] not to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor to [do anything] in which thy brother doth stumble, or is made to fall, or is weak.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou hast faith! to thyself have [it] before God; happy is he who is not judging himself in what he doth approve,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and he who is making a difference, if he may eat, hath been condemned, because [it is] not of faith; and all that [is] not of faith is sin.</p>

</body>
</html>