<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Are ye ignorant, brethren--for to those knowing law I speak--that the law hath lordship over the man as long as he liveth?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for the married woman to the living husband hath been bound by law, and if the husband may die, she hath been free from the law of the husband;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> so, then, the husband being alive, an adulteress she shall be called if she may become another man's; and if the husband may die, she is free from the law, so as not to be an adulteress, having become another man's.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So that, my brethren, ye also were made dead to the law through the body of the Christ, for your becoming another's, who out of the dead was raised up, that we might bear fruit to God;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for when we were in the flesh, the passions of the sins, that [are] through the law, were working in our members, to bear fruit to the death;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and now we have ceased from the law, that being dead in which we were held, so that we may serve in newness of spirit, and not in oldness of letter.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What, then, shall we say? the law [is] sin? let it not be! but the sin I did not know except through law, for also the covetousness I had not known if the law had not said:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> `Thou shalt not covet;' and the sin having received an opportunity, through the command, did work in me all covetousness--for apart from law sin is dead.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I was alive apart from law once, and the command having come, the sin revived, and I died;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the command that [is] for life, this was found by me for death;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for the sin, having received an opportunity, through the command, did deceive me, and through it did slay [me];</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> so that the law, indeed, [is] holy, and the command holy, and righteous, and good.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That which is good then, to me hath it become death? let it not be! but the sin, that it might appear sin, through the good, working death to me, that the sin might become exceeding sinful through the command,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for we have known that the law is spiritual, and I am fleshly, sold by the sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for that which I work, I do not acknowledge; for not what I will, this I practise, but what I hate, this I do.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if what I do not will, this I do, I consent to the law that [it is] good,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and now it is no longer I that work it, but the sin dwelling in me,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for I have known that there doth not dwell in me, that is, in my flesh, good: for to will is present with me, and to work that which is right I do not find,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> for the good that I will, I do not; but the evil that I do not will, this I practise.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And if what I do not will, this I do, it is no longer I that work it, but the sin that is dwelling in me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I find, then, the law, that when I desire to do what is right, with me the evil is present,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for I delight in the law of God according to the inward man,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and I behold another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of the sin that [is] in my members.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A wretched man I [am]! who shall deliver me out of the body of this death?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I thank God--through Jesus Christ our Lord; so then, I myself indeed with the mind do serve the law of God, and with the flesh, the law of sin.</p>

</body>
</html>