<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> What, then, [is] the superiority of the Jew? or what the profit of the circumcision?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> much in every way; for first, indeed, that they were intrusted with the oracles of God;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for what, if certain were faithless? shall their faithlessness the faithfulness of god make useless?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> let it not be! and let God become true, and every man false, according as it hath been written, `That Thou mayest be declared righteous in Thy words, and mayest overcome in Thy being judged.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And, if our unrighteousness God's righteousness doth establish, what shall we say? is God unrighteous who is inflicting the wrath? (after the manner of a man I speak)</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> let it not be! since how shall God judge the world?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for if the truth of God in my falsehood did more abound to His glory, why yet am I also as a sinner judged?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and not, as we are evil spoken of, and as certain affirm us to say--`We may do the evil things, that the good ones may come?' whose judgment is righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What, then? are we better? not at all! for we did before charge both Jews and Greeks with being all under sin,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> according as it hath been written--`There is none righteous, not even one;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is none who is understanding, there is none who is seeking after God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All did go out of the way, together they became unprofitable, there is none doing good, there is not even one.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A sepulchre opened [is] their throat; with their tongues they used deceit; poison of asps [is] under their lips.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Swift [are] their feet to shed blood.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Ruin and misery [are] in their ways.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And a way of peace they did not know.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There is no fear of God before their eyes.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And we have known that as many things as the law saith, to those in the law it doth speak, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may come under judgment to God;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> wherefore by works of law shall no flesh be declared righteous before Him, for through law is a knowledge of sin.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And now apart from law hath the righteousness of God been manifested, testified to by the law and the prophets,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and the righteousness of God [is] through the faith of Jesus Christ to all, and upon all those believing, --for there is no difference,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for all did sin, and are come short of the glory of God--</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> being declared righteous freely by His grace through the redemption that [is] in Christ Jesus,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> whom God did set forth a mercy seat, through the faith in his blood, for the shewing forth of His righteousness, because of the passing over of the bygone sins in the forbearance of God--</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for the shewing forth of His righteousness in the present time, for His being righteous, and declaring him righteous who [is] of the faith of Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Where then [is] the boasting? it was excluded; by what law? of works? no, but by a law of faith:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> therefore do we reckon a man to be declared righteous by faith, apart from works of law.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The God of Jews only [is He], and not also of nations?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> yes, also of nations; since one [is] God who shall declare righteous the circumcision by faith, and the uncircumcision through the faith.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Law then do we make useless through the faith? let it not be! yea, we do establish law.</p>

</body>
</html>