<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I say, then, Did God cast away His people? let it not be! for I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God did not cast away His people whom He knew before; have ye not known--in Elijah--what the Writing saith? how he doth plead with God concerning Israel, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> `Lord, Thy prophets they did kill, and Thy altars they dug down, and I was left alone, and they seek my life;'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but what saith the divine answer to him? `I left to Myself seven thousand men, who did not bow a knee to Baal.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So then also in the present time a remnant according to the choice of grace there hath been;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and if by grace, no more of works, otherwise the grace becometh no more grace; and if of works, it is no more grace, otherwise the work is no more work.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What then? What Israel doth seek after, this it did not obtain, and the chosen did obtain, and the rest were hardened,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> according as it hath been written, `God gave to them a spirit of deep sleep, eyes not to see, and ears not to hear,' --unto this very day,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and David saith, `Let their table become for a snare, and for a trap, and for a stumbling-block, and for a recompense to them;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> let their eyes be darkened--not to behold, and their back do Thou always bow down.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I say, then, Did they stumble that they might fall? let it not be! but by their fall the salvation [is] to the nations, to arouse them to jealousy;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and if the fall of them [is] the riches of a world, and the diminution of them the riches of nations, how much more the fulness of them?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For to you I speak--to the nations--inasmuch as I am indeed an apostle of nations, my ministration I do glorify;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> if by any means I shall arouse to jealousy mine own flesh, and shall save some of them,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for if the casting away of them [is] a reconciliation of the world, what the reception- -if not life out of the dead?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and if the first-fruit [is] holy, the lump also; and if the root [is] holy, the branches also.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And if certain of the branches were broken off, and thou, being a wild olive tree, wast graffed in among them, and a fellow-partaker of the root and of the fatness of the olive tree didst become--</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> do not boast against the branches; and if thou dost boast, thou dost not bear the root, but the root thee!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou wilt say, then, `The branches were broken off, that I might be graffed in;' right!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> by unbelief they were broken off, and thou hast stood by faith; be not high-minded, but be fearing;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> for if God the natural branches did not spare--lest perhaps He also shall not spare thee.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Lo, then, goodness and severity of God--upon those indeed who fell, severity; and upon thee, goodness, if thou mayest remain in the goodness, otherwise, thou also shalt be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And those also, if they may not remain in unbelief, shall be graffed in, for God is able again to graff them in;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for if thou, out of the olive tree, wild by nature, wast cut out, and, contrary to nature, wast graffed into a good olive tree, how much rather shall they, who [are] according to nature, be graffed into their own olive tree?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I do not wish you to be ignorant, brethren, of this secret--that ye may not be wise in your own conceits--that hardness in part to Israel hath happened till the fulness of the nations may come in;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and so all Israel shall be saved, according as it hath been written, `There shall come forth out of Sion he who is delivering, and he shall turn away impiety from Jacob,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and this to them [is] the covenant from Me, when I may take away their sins.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> As regards, indeed, the good tidings, [they are] enemies on your account; and as regards the choice--beloved on account of the fathers;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> for unrepented of [are] the gifts and the calling of God;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> for as ye also once did not believe in God, and now did find kindness by the unbelief of these:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> so also these now did not believe, that in your kindness they also may find kindness;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> for God did shut up together the whole to unbelief, that to the whole He might do kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> O depth of riches, and wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable His judgments, and untraceable His ways!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> for who did know the mind of the Lord? or who did become His counsellor?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> or who did first give to Him, and it shall be given back to him again?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> because of Him, and through Him, and to Him [are] the all things; to Him [is] the glory--to the ages. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>