<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Truth I say in Christ, I lie not, my conscience bearing testimony with me in the Holy Spirit,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that I have great grief and unceasing pain in my heart--</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for I was wishing, I myself, to be anathema from the Christ--for my brethren, my kindred, according to the flesh,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who are Israelites, whose [is] the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the lawgiving, and the service, and the promises,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> whose [are] the fathers, and of whom [is] the Christ, according to the flesh, who is over all, God blessed to the ages. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it is not possible that the word of God hath failed; for not all who [are] of Israel are these Israel;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> nor because they are seed of Abraham [are] all children, but--`in Isaac shall a seed be called to thee;'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> that is, the children of the flesh--these [are] not children of God; but the children of the promise are reckoned for seed;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for the word of promise [is] this; `According to this time I will come, and there shall be to Sarah a son.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And not only [so], but also Rebecca, having conceived by one--Isaac our father--</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> (for they being not yet born, neither having done anything good or evil, that the purpose of God, according to choice, might remain; not of works, but of Him who is calling,) it was said to her--</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> `The greater shall serve the less;'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> according as it hath been written, `Jacob I did love, and Esau I did hate.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What, then, shall we say? unrighteousness [is] with God? let it not be!</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for to Moses He saith, `I will do kindness to whom I do kindness, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion;'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> so, then--not of him who is willing, nor of him who is running, but of God who is doing kindness:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for the Writing saith to Pharaoh--`For this very thing I did raise thee up, that I might shew in thee My power, and that My name might be declared in all the land;'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> so, then, to whom He willeth, He doth kindness, and to whom He willeth, He doth harden.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou wilt say, then, to me, `Why yet doth He find fault? for His counsel who hath resisted?'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> nay, but, O man, who art thou that art answering again to God? shall the thing formed say to Him who did form [it], Why me didst thou make thus?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> hath not the potter authority over the clay, out of the same lump to make the one vessel to honour, and the one to dishonour?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And if God, willing to shew the wrath and to make known His power, did endure, in much long suffering, vessels of wrath fitted for destruction,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and that He might make known the riches of His glory on vessels of kindness, that He before prepared for glory, whom also He did call--us--</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> not only out of Jews, but also out of nations,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> as also in Hosea He saith, `I will call what [is] not My people--My people; and her not beloved--Beloved,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and it shall be--in the place where it was said to them, Ye [are] not My people; there they shall be called sons of the living God.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Isaiah doth cry concerning Israel, `If the number of the sons of Israel may be as the sand of the sea, the remnant shall be saved;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> for a matter He is finishing, and is cutting short in righteousness, because a matter cut short will the Lord do upon the land.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and according as Isaiah saith before, `Except the Lord of Sabaoth did leave to us a seed, as Sodom we had become, and as Gomorrah we had been made like.'</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> What, then, shall we say? that nations who are not pursuing righteousness did attain to righteousness, and righteousness that [is] of faith,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and Israel, pursuing a law of righteousness, at a law of righteousness did not arrive;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> wherefore? because--not by faith, but as by works of law; for they did stumble at the stone of stumbling,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> according as it hath been written, `Lo, I place in Sion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offence; and every one who is believing thereon shall not be ashamed.'</p>

</body>
</html>