<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I commend you to Phebe our sister--being a ministrant of the assembly that [is] in Cenchrea--</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that ye may receive her in the Lord, as doth become saints, and may assist her in whatever matter she may have need of you--for she also became a leader of many, and of myself.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Salute Priscilla and Aquilas, my fellow-workmen in Christ Jesus--</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who for my life their own neck did lay down, to whom not only I give thanks, but also all the assemblies of the nations--</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the assembly at their house; salute Epaenetus, my beloved, who is first-fruit of Achaia to Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Salute Mary, who did labour much for us;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> salute Andronicus and Junias, my kindred, and my fellow-captives, who are of note among the apostles, who also have been in Christ before me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Salute Amplias, my beloved in the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> salute Arbanus, our fellow-workman in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> salute Apelles, the approved in Christ; salute those of the [household] of Aristobulus;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> salute Herodion, my kinsman; salute those of the [household] of Narcissus, who are in the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> salute Tryphaena, and Tryphosa, who are labouring in the Lord; salute Persis, the beloved, who did labour much in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Salute Rufus, the choice one in the Lord, and his mother and mine,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren with them;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> salute Philologus, and Julias, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> salute one another in a holy kiss; the assemblies of Christ do salute you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I call upon you, brethren, to mark those who the divisions and the stumblingblocks, contrary to the teaching that ye did learn, are causing, and turn ye away from them;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for such our Lord Jesus Christ do not serve, but their own belly; and through the good word and fair speech they deceive the hearts of the harmless,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> for your obedience did reach to all; I rejoice, therefore, as regards you, and I wish you to be wise, indeed, as to the good, and harmless as to the evil;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and the God of the peace shall bruise the Adversary under your feet quickly; the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ [be] with you. Amen!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Salute you do Timotheus, my fellow-workman, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kindred;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I Tertius salute you (who wrote the letter) in the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> salute you doth Gaius, my host, and of the whole assembly; salute you doth Erastus, the steward of the city, and Quartus the brother,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ [be] with you all. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And to Him who is able to establish you, according to my good news, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the secret, in the times of the ages having been kept silent,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and now having been made manifest, also, through prophetic writings, according to a command of the age-during God, having been made known to all the nations for obedience of faith--</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> to the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, to him [be] glory to the ages. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>