<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man--every one who is judging--for in that in which thou dost judge the other, thyself thou dost condemn, for the same things thou dost practise who art judging,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and we have known that the judgment of God is according to truth, upon those practising such things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And dost thou think this, O man, who art judging those who such things are practising, and art doing them, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> or the riches of His goodness, and forbearance, and long-suffering, dost thou despise? --not knowing that the goodness of God doth lead thee to reformation!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but, according to thy hardness and impenitent heart, thou dost treasure up to thyself wrath, in a day of wrath and of the revelation of the righteous judgment of God,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who shall render to each according to his works;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> to those, indeed, who in continuance of a good work, do seek glory, and honour, and incorruptibility--life age-during;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and to those contentious, and disobedient, indeed, to the truth, and obeying the unrighteousness--indignation and wrath,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> tribulation and distress, upon every soul of man that is working the evil, both of Jew first, and of Greek;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and glory, and honour, and peace, to every one who is working the good, both to Jew first, and to Greek.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For there is no acceptance of faces with God,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for as many as without law did sin, without law also shall perish, and as many as did sin in law, through law shall be judged,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for not the hearers of the law [are] righteous before God, but the doers of the law shall be declared righteous: --</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For, when nations that have not a law, by nature may do the things of the law, these not having a law--to themselves are a law;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> who do shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also witnessing with them, and between one another the thoughts accusing or else defending,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men, according to my good news, through Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Lo, thou art named a Jew, and dost rest upon the law, and dost boast in God,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and dost know the will, and dost approve the distinctions, being instructed out of the law,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and hast confidence that thou thyself art a leader of blind ones, a light of those in darkness,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> an instructor of foolish ones, a teacher of babes, having the form of the knowledge and of the truth in the law.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou, then, who art teaching another, thyself dost thou not teach?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> thou who art preaching not to steal, dost thou steal? thou who art saying not to commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou who art abhorring the idols, dost thou rob temples?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> thou who in the law dost boast, through the transgression of the law God dost thou dishonour?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for the name of God because of you is evil spoken of among the nations, according as it hath been written.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For circumcision, indeed, doth profit, if law thou mayest practise, but if a transgressor of law thou mayest be, thy circumcision hath become uncircumcision.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If, therefore the uncircumcision the righteousness of the law may keep, shall not his uncircumcision for circumcision be reckoned?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and the uncircumcision, by nature, fulfilling the law, shall judge thee who, through letter and circumcision, [art] a transgressor of law.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For he is not a Jew who is [so] outwardly, neither [is] circumcision that which is outward in flesh;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but a Jew [is] he who is [so] inwardly, and circumcision [is] of the heart, in spirit, not in letter, of which the praise is not of men, but of God.</p>

</body>
</html>