<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> What, then, shall we say Abraham our father, to have found, according to flesh?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for if Abraham by works was declared righteous, he hath to boast--but not before god;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for what doth the writing say? `And Abraham did believe God, and it was reckoned to him--to righteousness;'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and to him who is working, the reward is not reckoned of grace, but of debt;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and to him who is not working, and is believing upon Him who is declaring righteous the impious, his faith is reckoned--to righteousness:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> even as David also doth speak of the happiness of the man to whom God doth reckon righteousness apart from works:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> `Happy they whose lawless acts were forgiven, and whose sins were covered;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> happy the man to whom the Lord may not reckon sin.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> [Is] this happiness, then, upon the circumcision, or also upon the uncircumcision--for we say that the faith was reckoned to Abraham--to righteousness?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> how then was it reckoned? he being in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and a sign he did receive of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith in the uncircumcision, for his being father of all those believing through uncircumcision, for the righteousness also being reckoned to them,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and father of circumcision to those not of circumcision only, but who also walk in the steps of the faith, that [is] in the uncircumcision of our father Abraham.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For not through law [is] the promise to Abraham, or to his seed, of his being heir of the world, but through the righteousness of faith;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for if they who are of law [are] heirs, the faith hath been made void, and the promise hath been made useless;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for the law doth work wrath; for where law is not, neither [is] transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because of this [it is] of faith, that [it may be] according to grace, for the promise being sure to all the seed, not to that which [is] of the law only, but also to that which [is] of the faith of Abraham,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> who is father of us all (according as it hath been written--`A father of many nations I have set thee,') before Him whom he did believe--God, who is quickening the dead, and is calling the things that be not as being.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Who, against hope in hope did believe, for his becoming father of many nations according to that spoken: `So shall thy seed be;'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and not having been weak in the faith, he did not consider his own body, already become dead, (being about a hundred years old,) and the deadness of Sarah's womb,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and at the promise of God did not stagger in unbelief, but was strengthened in faith, having given glory to God,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and having been fully persuaded that what He hath promised He is able also to do:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> wherefore also it was reckoned to him to righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And it was not written on his account alone, that it was reckoned to him,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but also on ours, to whom it is about to be reckoned--to us believing on Him who did raise up Jesus our Lord out of the dead,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> who was delivered up because of our offences, and was raised up because of our being declared righteous.</p>

</body>
</html>