<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Brethren, the pleasure indeed of my heart, and my supplication that [is] to God for Israel, is--for salvation;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for I bear them testimony that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for not knowing the righteousness of God, and their own righteousness seeking to establish, to the righteousness of God they did not submit.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Christ is an end of law for righteousness to every one who is believing,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for Moses doth describe the righteousness that [is] of the law, that, `The man who did them shall live in them,'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the righteousness of faith doth thus speak: `Thou mayest not say in thine heart, Who shall go up to the heaven,' that is, Christ to bring down?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> or, `Who shall go down to the abyss,' that is, Christ out of the dead to bring up.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But what doth it say? `Nigh thee is the saying--in thy mouth, and in thy heart:' that is, the saying of the faith, that we preach;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> that if thou mayest confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and mayest believe in thy heart that God did raise him out of the dead, thou shalt be saved,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for with the heart doth [one] believe to righteousness, and with the mouth is confession made to salvation;</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for the Writing saith, `Every one who is believing on him shall not be ashamed,'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for there is no difference between Jew and Greek, for the same Lord of all [is] rich to all those calling upon Him,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for every one--whoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, he shall be saved.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How then shall they call upon [him] in whom they did not believe? and how shall they believe [on him] of whom they did not hear? and how shall they hear apart from one preaching?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and how shall they preach, if they may not be sent? according as it hath been written, `How beautiful the feet of those proclaiming good tidings of peace, of those proclaiming good tidings of the good things!'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But they were not all obedient to the good tidings, for Isaiah saith, `Lord, who did give credence to our report?'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> so then the faith [is] by a report, and the report through a saying of God,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> but I say, Did they not hear? yes, indeed--`to all the earth their voice went forth, and to the ends of the habitable world their sayings.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But I say, Did not Israel know? first Moses saith, `I will provoke you to jealousy by [that which is] not a nation; by an unintelligent nation I will anger you,'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Isaiah is very bold, and saith, `I was found by those not seeking Me; I became manifest to those not inquiring after Me;'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and unto Israel He saith, `All the day I did stretch out My hands unto a people unbelieving and gainsaying.'</p>

</body>
</html>