<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Dare any one of you, having a matter with the other, go to be judged before the unrighteous, and not before the saints?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> have ye not known that the saints shall judge the world? and if by you the world is judged, are ye unworthy of the smaller judgments?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> have ye not known that we shall judge messengers? why not then the things of life?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> of the things of life, indeed, then, if ye may have judgment, those despised in the assembly--these cause ye to sit;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> unto your shame I speak: so there is not among you one wise man, not even one, who shall be able to discern in the midst of his brethren!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but brother with brother doth go to be judged, and this before unbelievers!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Already, indeed, then, there is altogether a fault among you, that ye have judgments with one another; wherefore do ye not rather suffer injustice? wherefore be ye not rather defrauded?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but ye--ye do injustice, and ye defraud, and these--brethren!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> have ye not known that the unrighteous the reign of God shall not inherit? be not led astray; neither whoremongers, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor sodomites,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, the reign of God shall inherit.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And certain of you were these! but ye were washed, but ye were sanctified, but ye were declared righteous, in the name of the Lord Jesus, and in the Spirit of our God.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All things are lawful to me, but all things are not profitable; all things are lawful to me, but I--I will not be under authority by any;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> the meats [are] for the belly, and the belly for the meats. And God both this and these shall make useless; and the body [is] not for whoredom, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and God both the Lord did raise, and us will raise up through His power.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Have ye not known that your bodies are members of Christ? having taken, then, the members of the Christ, shall I make [them] members of an harlot? let it be not!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> have ye not known that he who is joined to the harlot is one body? `for they shall be--saith He--the two for one flesh.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> flee the whoredom; every sin--whatever a man may commit--is without the body, and he who is committing whoredom, against his own body doth sin.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Have ye not known that your body is a sanctuary of the Holy Spirit in you, which ye have from God? and ye are not your own,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for ye were bought with a price; glorify, then, God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's.</p>

</body>
</html>