<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let a man so reckon us as officers of Christ, and stewards of the secrets of God,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and as to the rest, it is required in the stewards that one may be found faithful,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and to me it is for a very little thing that by you I may be judged, or by man's day, but not even myself do I judge,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> for of nothing to myself have I been conscious, but not in this have I been declared right--and he who is discerning me is the Lord:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> so, then, nothing before the time judge ye, till the Lord may come, who will both bring to light the hidden things of the darkness, and will manifest the counsels of the hearts, and then the praise shall come to each from God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And these things, brethren, I did transfer to myself and to Apollos because of you, that in us ye may learn not to think above that which hath been written, that ye may not be puffed up one for one against the other,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for who doth make thee to differ? and what hast thou, that thou didst not receive? and if thou didst also receive, why dost thou glory as not having received?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Already ye are having been filled, already ye were rich, apart from us ye did reign, and I would also ye did reign, that we also with you may reign together,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for I think that God did set forth us the apostles last--as appointed to death, because a spectacle we became to the world, and messengers, and men;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> we [are] fools because of Christ, and ye wise in Christ; we [are] ailing, and ye strong; ye glorious, and we dishonoured;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> unto the present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and wander about,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and labour, working with [our] own hands; being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we suffer;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> being spoken evil of, we entreat; as filth of the world we did become--of all things an offscouring--till now.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Not [as] putting you to shame do I write these things, but as my beloved children I do admonish,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for if a myriad of child-conductors ye may have in Christ, yet not many fathers; for in Christ Jesus, through the good news, I--I did beget you;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I call upon you, therefore, become ye followers of me;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> because of this I sent to you Timotheus, who is my child, beloved and faithful in the Lord, who shall remind you of my ways in Christ, according as everywhere in every assembly I teach.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And as if I were not coming unto you certain were puffed up;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but I will come quickly unto you, if the Lord may will, and I will know not the word of those puffed up, but the power;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for not in word is the reign of God, but in power?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> what do ye wish? with a rod shall I come unto you, or in love, with a spirit also of meekness?</p>

</body>
</html>