<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Am not I an apostle? am not I free? Jesus Christ our Lord have I not seen? my work are not ye in the Lord?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> if to others I am not an apostle--yet doubtless to you I am; for the seal of my apostleship are ye in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My defence to those who examine me in this;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> have we not authority to eat and to drink?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> have we not authority a sister--a wife--to lead about, as also the other apostles, and the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> or only I and Barnabas, have we not authority--not to work?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> who doth serve as a soldier at his own charges at any time? who doth plant a vineyard, and of its fruit doth not eat? or who doth feed a flock, and of the milk of the flock doth not eat?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> According to man do I speak these things? or doth not also the law say these things?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for in the law of Moses it hath been written, `thou shalt not muzzle an ox treading out corn;' for the oxen doth God care?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> or because of us by all means doth He say [it]? yes, because of us it was written, because in hope ought the plower to plow, and he who is treading [ought] of his hope to partake in hope.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If we to you the spiritual things did sow--great [is it] if we your fleshly things do reap?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> if others do partake of the authority over you--not we more? but we did not use this authority, but all things we bear, that we may give no hindrance to the good news of the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Have ye not known that those working about the things of the temple--of the temple do eat, and those waiting at the altar--with the altar are partakers?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> so also did the Lord direct to those proclaiming the good news: of the good news to live.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I have used none of these things; neither did I write these things that it may be so done in my case, for [it is] good for me rather to die, than that any one may make my glorying void;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for if I may proclaim good news, it is no glorying for me, for necessity is laid upon me, and woe is to me if I may not proclaim good news;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for if willing I do this, I have a reward; and if unwillingly--with a stewardship I have been entrusted!</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What, then, is my reward? --that proclaiming good news, without charge I shall make the good news of the Christ, not to abuse my authority in the good news;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> for being free from all men, to all men I made myself servant, that the more I might gain;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and I became to the Jews as a Jew, that Jews I might gain; to those under law as under law, that those under law I might gain;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> to those without law, as without law--(not being without law to God, but within law to Christ) --that I might gain those without law;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I became to the infirm as infirm, that the infirm I might gain; to all men I have become all things, that by all means I may save some.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And this I do because of the good news, that a fellow-partaker of it I may become;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> have ye not known that those running in a race--all indeed run, but one doth receive the prize? so run ye, that ye may obtain;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and every one who is striving, is in all things temperate; these, indeed, then, that a corruptible crown they may receive, but we an incorruptible;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I, therefore, thus run, not as uncertainly, thus I fight, as not beating air;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> but I chastise my body, and bring [it] into servitude, lest by any means, having preached to others--I myself may become disapproved.</p>

</body>
</html>