<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And concerning the spiritual things, brethren, I do not wish you to be ignorant;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> ye have known that ye were nations, unto the dumb idols--as ye were led-- being carried away;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> wherefore, I give you to understand that no one, in the Spirit of God speaking, saith Jesus [is] anathema, and no one is able to say Jesus [is] Lord, except in the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And there are diversities of gifts, and the same Spirit;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and there are diversities of ministrations, and the same Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and there are diversities of workings, and it is the same God--who is working the all in all.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And to each hath been given the manifestation of the Spirit for profit;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for to one through the Spirit hath been given a word of wisdom, and to another a word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and to another faith in the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healings in the same Spirit;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and to another in-workings of mighty deeds; and to another prophecy; and to another discernings of spirits; and to another [divers] kinds of tongues; and to another interpretation of tongues:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and all these doth work the one and the same Spirit, dividing to each severally as he intendeth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For, even as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of the one body, being many, are one body, so also [is] the Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for also in one Spirit we all to one body were baptized, whether Jews or Greeks, whether servants or freemen, and all into one Spirit were made to drink,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for also the body is not one member, but many;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> if the foot may say, `Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body;' it is not, because of this, not of the body;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and if the ear may say, `Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body;' it is not, because of this, not of the body?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If the whole body [were] an eye, where the hearing? if the whole hearing, where the smelling?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and now, God did set the members each one of them in the body, according as He willed,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and if all were one member, where the body?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and now, indeed, [are] many members, and one body;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and an eye is not able to say to the hand, `I have no need of thee;' nor again the head to the feet, `I have no need of you.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But much more the members of the body which seem to be more infirm are necessary,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and those that we think to be less honourable of the body, around these we put more abundant honour, and our unseemly things have seemliness more abundant,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and our seemly things have no need; but God did temper the body together, to the lacking part having given more abundant honour,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same anxiety for one another,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and whether one member doth suffer, suffer with [it] do all the members, or one member is glorified, rejoice with [it] do all the members;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And some, indeed, did God set in the assembly, first apostles, secondly prophets, thirdly teachers, afterwards powers, afterwards gifts of healings, helpings, governings, divers kinds of tongues;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> [are] all apostles? [are] all prophets? [are] all teachers? [are] all powers?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> have all gifts of healings? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and desire earnestly the better gifts; and yet a far excelling way do I shew to you:</p>

</body>
</html>