<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And concerning the collection that [is] for the saints, as I directed to the assemblies of Galatia, so also ye--do ye;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> on every first [day] of the week, let each one of you lay by him, treasuring up whatever he may have prospered, that when I may come then collections may not be made;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and whenever I may come, whomsoever ye may approve, through letters, these I will send to carry your favour to Jerusalem;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and if it be meet for me also to go, with me they shall go.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will come unto you, when I pass through Macedonia--for Macedonia I do pass through--</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and with you, it may be, I will abide, or even winter, that ye may send me forward whithersoever I go,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for I do not wish to see you now in the passing, but I hope to remain a certain time with you, if the Lord may permit;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and I will remain in Ephesus till the Pentecost,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for a door to me hath been opened--great and effectual--and withstanders [are] many.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And if Timotheus may come, see that he may become without fear with you, for the work of the Lord he doth work, even as I,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> no one, then, may despise him; and send ye him forward in peace, that he may come to me, for I expect him with the brethren;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and concerning Apollos our brother, much I did entreat him that he may come unto you with the brethren, and it was not at all [his] will that he may come now, and he will come when he may find convenient.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Watch ye, stand in the faith; be men, be strong;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> let all your things be done in love.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I entreat you, brethren, ye have known the household of Stephanas, that it is the first-fruit of Achaia, and to the ministration to the saints they did set themselves--</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> that ye also be subject to such, and to every one who is working with [us] and labouring;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and I rejoice over the presence of Stephanas, and Fortunatus, and Achaicus, because the lack of you did these fill up;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for they did refresh my spirit and yours; acknowledge ye, therefore, those who [are] such.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Salute you do the assemblies of Asia; salute you much in the Lord do Aquilas and Priscilla, with the assembly in their house;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> salute you do all the brethren; salute ye one another in an holy kiss.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The salutation of [me] Paul with my hand;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> if any one doth not love the Lord Jesus Christ--let him be anathema! The Lord hath come!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ [is] with you;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> my love [is] with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>