<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Followers of me become ye, as I also [am] of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I praise you, brethren, that in all things ye remember me, and according as I did deliver to you, the deliverances ye keep,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I wish you to know that of every man the head is the Christ, and the head of a woman is the husband, and the head of Christ is God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Every man praying or prophesying, having the head covered, doth dishonour his head,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and every woman praying or prophesying with the head uncovered, doth dishonour her own head, for it is one and the same thing with her being shaven,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for if a woman is not covered--then let her be shorn, and if [it is] a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven--let her be covered;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for a man, indeed, ought not to cover the head, being the image and glory of God, and a woman is the glory of a man,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for a man is not of a woman, but a woman [is] of a man,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for a man also was not created because of the woman, but a woman because of the man;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> because of this the woman ought to have [a token of] authority upon the head, because of the messengers;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> but neither [is] a man apart from a woman, nor a woman apart from a man, in the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for as the woman [is] of the man, so also the man [is] through the woman, and the all things [are] of God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In your own selves judge ye; is it seemly for a woman uncovered to pray to God?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> doth not even nature itself teach you, that if a man indeed have long hair, a dishonour it is to him?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and a woman, if she have long hair, a glory it is to her, because the hair instead of a covering hath been given to her;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and if any one doth think to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the assemblies of God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And this declaring, I give no praise, because not for the better, but for the worse ye come together;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for first, indeed, ye coming together in an assembly, I hear of divisions being among you, and partly I believe [it],</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> for it behoveth sects also to be among you, that those approved may become manifest among you;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> ye, then, coming together at the same place--it is not to eat the Lord's supper;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> for each his own supper doth take before in the eating, and one is hungry, and another is drunk;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> why, have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or the assembly of God do ye despise, and shame those not having? what may I say to you? shall I praise you in this? I do not praise!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I--I received from the Lord that which also I did deliver to you, that the Lord Jesus in the night in which he was delivered up, took bread,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and having given thanks, he brake, and said, `Take ye, eat ye, this is my body, that for you is being broken; this do ye--to the remembrance of me.'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In like manner also the cup after the supping, saying, `This cup is the new covenant in my blood; this do ye, as often as ye may drink [it] --to the remembrance of me;'</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for as often as ye may eat this bread, and this cup may drink, the death of the Lord ye do shew forth--till he may come;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> so that whoever may eat this bread or may drink the cup of the Lord unworthily, guilty he shall be of the body and blood of the Lord:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and let a man be proving himself, and so of the bread let him eat, and of the cup let him drink;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> for he who is eating and drinking unworthily, judgment to himself he doth eat and drink--not discerning the body of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Because of this, among you many [are] weak and sickly, and sleep do many;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> for if ourselves we were discerning, we would not be being judged,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and being judged by the Lord, we are chastened, that with the world we may not be condemned;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> so then, my brethren, coming together to eat, for one another wait ye;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and if any one is hungry, at home let him eat, that to judgment ye may not come together; and the rest, whenever I may come, I shall arrange.</p>

</body>
</html>