<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Pursue the love, and seek earnestly the spiritual things, and rather that ye may prophecy,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for he who is speaking in an [unknown] tongue--to men he doth not speak, but to God, for no one doth hearken, and in spirit he doth speak secrets;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and he who is prophesying to men doth speak edification, and exhortation, and comfort;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> he who is speaking in an [unknown] tongue, himself doth edify, and he who is prophesying, an assembly doth edify;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and I wish you all to speak with tongues, and more that ye may prophecy, for greater is he who is prophesying than he who is speaking with tongues, except one may interpret, that the assembly may receive edification.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now, brethren, if I may come unto you speaking tongues, what shall I profit you, except I shall speak to you either in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophesying, or in teaching?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> yet the things without life giving sound--whether pipe or harp--if a difference in the sounds they may not give, how shall be known that which is piped or that which is harped?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for if also an uncertain sound a trumpet may give, who shall prepare himself for battle?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> so also ye, if through the tongue, speech easily understood ye may not give-- how shall that which is spoken be known? for ye shall be speaking to air.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> There are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and none of them is unmeaning,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> if, then, I do not know the power of the voice, I shall be to him who is speaking a foreigner, and he who is speaking, is to me a foreigner;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> so also ye, since ye are earnestly desirous of spiritual gifts, for the building up of the assembly seek that ye may abound;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> wherefore he who is speaking in an [unknown] tongue--let him pray that he may interpret;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for if I pray in an [unknown] tongue, my spirit doth pray, and my understanding is unfruitful.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What then is it? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray also with the understanding; I will sing psalms with the spirit, and I will sing psalms also with the understanding;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> since, if thou mayest bless with the spirit, he who is filling the place of the unlearned, how shall he say the Amen at thy giving of thanks, since what thou dost say he hath not known?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for thou, indeed, dost give thanks well, but the other is not built up!</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I give thanks to my God--more than you all with tongues speaking--</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but in an assembly I wish to speak five words through my understanding, that others also I may instruct, rather than myriads of words in an [unknown] tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Brethren, become not children in the understanding, but in the evil be ye babes, and in the understanding become ye perfect;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> in the law it hath been written, that, `With other tongues and with other lips I will speak to this people, and not even so will they hear Me, saith the Lord;'</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> so that the tongues are for a sign, not to the believing, but to the unbelieving; and the prophesy [is] not for the unbelieving, but for the believing,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If, therefore, the whole assembly may come together, to the same place, and all may speak with tongues, and there may come in unlearned or unbelievers, will they not say that ye are mad?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and if all may prophecy, and any one may come in, an unbeliever or unlearned, he is convicted by all, he is discerned by all,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and so the secrets of his heart become manifest, and so having fallen upon [his] face, he will bow before God, declaring that God really is among you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> What then is it, brethren? whenever ye may come together, each of you hath a psalm, hath a teaching, hath a tongue, hath a revelation, hath an interpretation? let all things be for building up;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> if an [unknown] tongue any one do speak, by two, or at the most, by three, and in turn, and let one interpret;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and if there may be no interpreter, let him be silent in an assembly, and to himself let him speak, and to God.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And prophets--let two or three speak, and let the others discern,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and if to another sitting [anything] may be revealed, let the first be silent;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> for ye are able, one by one, all to prophesy, that all may learn, and all may be exhorted,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and the spiritual gift of prophets to prophets are subject,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> for God is not [a God] of tumult, but of peace, as in all the assemblies of the saints.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Your women in the assemblies let them be silent, for it hath not been permitted to them to speak, but to be subject, as also the law saith;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and if they wish to learn anything, at home their own husbands let them question, for it is a shame to women to speak in an assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> From you did the word of God come forth? or to you alone did it come?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> if any one doth think to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him acknowledge the things that I write to you--that of the Lord they are commands;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and if any one is ignorant--let him be ignorant;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> so that, brethren, earnestly desire to prophesy, and to speak with tongues do not forbid;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> let all things be done decently and in order.</p>

</body>
</html>