<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> To boast, really, is not profitable for me, for I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have known a man in Christ, fourteen years ago--whether in the body I have not known, whether out of the body I have not known, God hath known--such an one being caught away unto the third heaven;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I have known such a man--whether in the body, whether out of the body, I have not known, God hath known, --</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> that he was caught away to the paradise, and heard unutterable sayings, that it is not possible for man to speak.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Of such an one I will boast, and of myself I will not boast, except in my infirmities,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for if I may wish to boast, I shall not be a fool, for truth I will say; but I forebear, lest any one in regard to me may think anything above what he doth see me, or doth hear anything of me;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and that by the exceeding greatness of the revelations I might not be exalted overmuch, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, a messenger of the Adversary, that he might buffet me, that I might not be exalted overmuch.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Concerning this thing thrice the Lord did I call upon, that it might depart from me,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and He said to me, `Sufficient for thee is My grace, for My power in infirmity is perfected;' most gladly, therefore, will I rather boast in my infirmities, that the power of the Christ may rest on me:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> wherefore I am well pleased in infirmities, in damages, in necessities, in persecutions, in distresses--for Christ; for whenever I am infirm, then I am powerful;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I have become a fool--boasting; ye--ye did compel me; for I ought by you to have been commended, for in nothing was I behind the very chiefest apostles--even if I am nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The signs, indeed, of the apostle were wrought among you in all patience, in signs, and wonders, and mighty deeds,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for what is there in which ye were inferior to the rest of the assemblies, except that I myself was not a burden to you? forgive me this injustice!</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Lo, a third time I am ready to come unto you, and I will not be a burden to you, for I seek not yours, but you, for the children ought not for the parents to lay up, but the parents for the children,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and I most gladly will spend and be entirely spent for your souls, even if, more abundantly loving you, less I am loved.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And be it [so], I--I did not burden you, but being crafty, with guile I did take you;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> any one of those whom I have sent unto you--by him did I take advantage of you?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I entreated Titus, and did send with [him] the brother; did Titus take advantage of you? in the same spirit did we not walk? --did we not in the same steps?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Again, think ye that to you we are making defence? before God in Christ do we speak; and the all things, beloved, [are] for your up-building,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for I fear lest, having come, not such as I wish I may find you, and I--I may be found by you such as ye do not wish, lest there be strifes, envyings, wraths, revelries, evilspeakings, whisperings, puffings up, insurrections,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> lest again having come, my God may humble me in regard to you, and I may bewail many of those having sinned before, and not having reformed concerning the uncleanness, and whoredom, and lasciviousness, that they did practise.</p>

</body>
</html>