<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And working together also we call upon [you] that ye receive not in vain the grace of God--</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for He saith, `In an acceptable time I did hear thee, and in a day of salvation I did help thee, lo, now [is] a well-accepted time; lo, now, a day of salvation,' --</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> in nothing giving any cause of offence, that the ministration may be not blamed,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but in everything recommending ourselves as God's ministrants; in much patience, in tribulations, in necessities, in distresses,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> in stripes, in imprisonments, in insurrections, in labours, in watchings, in fastings,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> in pureness, in knowledge, in long-suffering, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in love unfeigned,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> in the word of truth, in the power of God, through the armour of the righteousness, on the right and on the left,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> through glory and dishonour, through evil report and good report, as leading astray, and true;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> as unknown, and recognized; as dying, and lo, we live; as chastened, and not put to death;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> as sorrowful, and always rejoicing; as poor, and making many rich; as having nothing, and possessing all things.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Our mouth hath been open unto you, O Corinthians, our heart hath been enlarged!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> ye are not straitened in us, and ye are straitened in your [own] bowels,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and [as] a recompense of the same kind, (as to children I say [it],) be ye enlarged--also ye!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Become not yoked with others--unbelievers, for what partaking [is there] to righteousness and lawlessness?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and what fellowship to light with darkness? and what concord to Christ with Belial? or what part to a believer with an unbeliever?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and what agreement to the sanctuary of God with idols? for ye are a sanctuary of the living God, according as God said--`I will dwell in them, and will walk among [them], and I will be their God, and they shall be My people,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> wherefore, come ye forth out of the midst of them, and be separated, saith the Lord, and an unclean thing do not touch, and I--I will receive you,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and I will be to you for a Father, and ye--ye shall be to Me for sons and daughters, saith the Lord Almighty.'</p>

</body>
</html>