<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O that ye were bearing with me a little of the folly, but ye also do bear with me:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for I am zealous for you with zeal of God, for I did betroth you to one husband, a pure virgin, to present to Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I fear, lest, as the serpent did beguile Eve in his subtilty, so your minds may be corrupted from the simplicity that [is] in the Christ;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> for if, indeed, he who is coming doth preach another Jesus whom we did not preach, or another Spirit ye receive which ye did not receive, or other good news which ye did not accept--well were ye bearing [it],</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for I reckon that I have been nothing behind the very chiefest apostles,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and even if unlearned in word--yet not in knowledge, but in every thing we were made manifest in all things to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The sin did I do--myself humbling that ye might be exalted, because freely the good news of God I did proclaim to you?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> other assemblies I did rob, having taken wages, for your ministration;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and being present with you, and having been in want, I was chargeable to no one, for my lack did the brethren supply--having come from Macedonia--and in everything burdenless to you I did keep myself, and will keep.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The truth of Christ is in me, because this boasting shall not be stopped in regard to me in the regions of Achaia;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> wherefore? because I do not love you? God hath known!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and what I do, I also will do, that I may cut off the occasion of those wishing an occasion, that in that which they boast they may be found according as we also;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for those such [are] false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and no wonder--for even the Adversary doth transform himself into a messenger of light;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> no great thing, then, if also his ministrants do transform themselves as ministrants of righteousness--whose end shall be according to their works.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Again I say, may no one think me to be a fool; and if otherwise, even as a fool receive me, that I also a little may boast.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> That which I speak, I speak not according to the Lord, but as in foolishness, in this the confidence of boasting;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> since many boast according to the flesh, I also will boast:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> for gladly do ye bear with the fools--being wise,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for ye bear, if any one is bringing you under bondage, if any one doth devour, if any one doth take away, if any one doth exalt himself, if any one on the face doth smite you;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> in reference to dishonour I speak, how that we were weak, and in whatever any one is bold--in foolishness I say [it] --I also am bold.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hebrews are they? I also! Israelites are they? I also! seed of Abraham are they? I also!</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> ministrants of Christ are they? --as beside myself I speak--I more; in labours more abundantly, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequently, in deaths many times;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> from Jews five times forty [stripes] save one I did receive;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice was I shipwrecked, a night and a day in the deep I have passed;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> journeyings many times, perils of rivers, perils of robbers, perils from kindred, perils from nations, perils in city, perils in wilderness, perils in sea, perils among false brethren;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> in labouriousness and painfulness, in watchings many times, in hunger and thirst, in fastings many times, in cold and nakedness;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> apart from the things without--the crowding upon me that is daily--the care of all the assemblies.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Who is infirm, and I am not infirm? who is stumbled, and I am not fired;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> if to boast it behoveth [me], of the things of my infirmity I will boast;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ--who is blessed to the ages--hath known that I do not lie! --</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> In Damascus the ethnarch of Aretas the king was watching the city of the Damascenes, wishing to seize me,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and through a window in a rope basket I was let down, through the wall, and fled out of his hands.</p>

</body>
</html>