<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, an apostle--not from men, nor through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who did raise him out of the dead--</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and all the brethren with me, to the assemblies of Galatia:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace to you, and peace from God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who did give himself for our sins, that he might deliver us out of the present evil age, according to the will of God even our Father,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> to whom [is] the glory to the ages of the ages. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I wonder that ye are so quickly removed from Him who did call you in the grace of Christ to another good news;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> that is not another, except there be certain who are troubling you, and wishing to pervert the good news of the Christ;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but even if we or a messenger out of heaven may proclaim good news to you different from what we did proclaim to you--anathema let him be!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> as we have said before, and now say again, If any one to you may proclaim good news different from what ye did receive--anathema let him be!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for now men do I persuade, or God? or do I seek to please men? for if yet men I did please--Christ's servant I should not be.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I make known to you, brethren, the good news that were proclaimed by me, that it is not according to man,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for neither did I from man receive it, nor was I taught [it], but through a revelation of Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for ye did hear of my behaviour once in Judaism, that exceedingly I was persecuting the assembly of God, and wasting it,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and I was advancing in Judaism above many equals in age in mine own race, being more abundantly zealous of my fathers' deliverances,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and when God was well pleased--having separated me from the womb of my mother, and having called [me] through His grace--</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> to reveal His Son in me, that I might proclaim him good news among the nations, immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> nor did I go up to Jerusalem unto those who were apostles before me, but I went away to Arabia, and again returned to Damascus,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> then, after three years I went up to Jerusalem to enquire about Peter, and remained with him fifteen days,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and other of the apostles I did not see, except James, the brother of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the things that I write to you, lo, before God--I lie not;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> then I came to the regions of Syria and of Cilicia,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and was unknown by face to the assemblies of Judea, that [are] in Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and only they were hearing, that `he who is persecuting us then, doth now proclaim good news--the faith that then he was wasting;'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and they were glorifying God in me.</p>

</body>
</html>