<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Brethren, if a man also may be overtaken in any trespass, ye who [are] spiritual restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, considering thyself--lest thou also may be tempted;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> of one another the burdens bear ye, and so fill up the law of the Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for if any one doth think [himself] to be something--being nothing--himself he doth deceive;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and his own work let each one prove, and then in regard to himself alone the glorying he shall have, and not in regard to the other,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for each one his own burden shall bear.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And let him who is instructed in the word share with him who is instructing--in all good things.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be not led astray; God is not mocked; for what a man may sow--that also he shall reap,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> because he who is sowing to his own flesh, of the flesh shall reap corruption; and he who is sowing to the Spirit, of the Spirit shall reap life age-during;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and in the doing good we may not be faint-hearted, for at the proper time we shall reap--not desponding;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> therefore, then, as we have opportunity, may we work the good to all, and especially unto those of the household of the faith.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ye see in how large letters I have written to you with my own hand;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> as many as are willing to make a good appearance in the flesh, these constrain you to be circumcised--only that for the cross of the Christ they may not be persecuted,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for neither do those circumcised themselves keep the law, but they wish you to be circumcised, that in your flesh they may glory.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And for me, let it not be--to glory, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which to me the world hath been crucified, and I to the world;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and as many as by this rule do walk--peace upon them, and kindness, and on the Israel of God!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Henceforth, let no one give me trouble, for I the scars of the Lord Jesus in my body do bear.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ [is] with your spirit, brethren! Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>