<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the freedom, then, with which Christ did make you free--stand ye, and be not held fast again by a yoke of servitude;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> lo, I Paul do say to you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I testify again to every man circumcised, that he is a debtor to do the whole law;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> ye were freed from the Christ, ye who in law are declared righteous; from the grace ye fell away;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for we by the Spirit, by faith, a hope of righteousness do wait for,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth anything, nor uncircumcision, but faith through love working.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ye were running well; who did hinder you--not to obey the truth?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> the obedience [is] not of him who is calling you!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> a little leaven the whole lump doth leaven;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have confidence in regard to you in the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded; and he who is troubling you shall bear the judgment, whoever he may be.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I, brethren, if uncircumcision I yet preach, why yet am I persecuted? then hath the stumbling-block of the cross been done away;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O that even they would cut themselves off who are unsettling you!</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For ye--to freedom ye were called, brethren, only not the freedom for an occasion to the flesh, but through the love serve ye one another,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for all the law in one word is fulfilled--in this: `Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself;'</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and if one another ye do bite and devour, see--that ye may not by one another be consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I say: In the Spirit walk ye, and the desire of the flesh ye may not complete;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for the flesh doth desire contrary to the Spirit, and the Spirit contrary to the flesh, and these are opposed one to another, that the things that ye may will--these ye may not do;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and if by the Spirit ye are led, ye are not under law.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And manifest also are the works of the flesh, which are: Adultery, whoredom, uncleanness, lasciviousness,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, strifes, emulations, wraths, rivalries, dissensions, sects,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> envyings, murders, drunkennesses, revellings, and such like, of which I tell you before, as I also said before, that those doing such things the reign of God shall not inherit.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the fruit of the Spirit is: Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, kindness, goodness, faith,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> meekness, temperance: against such there is no law;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and those who are Christ's, the flesh did crucify with the affections, and the desires;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> if we may live in the Spirit, in the Spirit also we may walk;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> let us not become vain-glorious--one another provoking, one another envying!</p>

</body>
</html>