<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ephesians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ephesians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The children! obey your parents in the Lord, for this is righteous;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> honour thy father and mother,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> which is the first command with a promise, `That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live a long time upon the land.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the fathers! provoke not your children, but nourish them in the instruction and admonition of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The servants! obey the masters according to the flesh with fear and trembling, in the simplicity of your heart, as to the Christ;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> not with eye-service as men-pleasers, but as servants of the Christ, doing the will of God out of soul,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> with good-will serving, as to the Lord, and not to men,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> having known that whatever good thing each one may do, this he shall receive from the Lord, whether servant or freeman.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the masters! the same things do ye unto them, letting threatening alone, having known that also your Master is in the heavens, and acceptance of persons is not with him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As to the rest, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> put on the whole armour of God, for your being able to stand against the wiles of the devil,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> because we have not the wrestling with blood and flesh, but with the principalities, with the authorities, with the world-rulers of the darkness of this age, with the spiritual things of the evil in the heavenly places;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> because of this take ye up the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to resist in the day of the evil, and all things having done--to stand.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about in truth, and having put on the breastplate of the righteousness,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and having the feet shod in the preparation of the good-news of the peace;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> above all, having taken up the shield of the faith, in which ye shall be able all the fiery darts of the evil one to quench,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the helmet of the salvation receive, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the saying of God,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> through all prayer and supplication praying at all times in the Spirit, and in regard to this same, watching in all perseverance and supplication for all the saints--</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and in behalf of me, that to me may be given a word in the opening of my mouth, in freedom, to make known the secret of the good news,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for which I am an ambassador in a chain, that in it I may speak freely--as it behoveth me to speak.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And that ye may know--ye also--the things concerning me--what I do, all things make known to you shall Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful ministrant in the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> whom I did send unto you for this very thing, that ye might know the things concerning us, and that he might comfort your hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Peace to the brethren, and love, with faith, from God the Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ!</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The grace with all those loving our Lord Jesus Christ--undecayingly! Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>