<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So then, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand ye in the Lord, beloved.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Euodia I exhort, and Syntyche I exhort, to be of the same mind in the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I ask also thee, genuine yoke-fellow, be assisting those women who in the good news did strive along with me, with Clement also, and the others, my fellow-workers, whose names [are] in the book of life.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, rejoice;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> let your forbearance be known to all men; the Lord [is] near;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for nothing be anxious, but in everything by prayer, and by supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the peace of God, that is surpassing all understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As to the rest, brethren, as many things as are true, as many as [are] grave, as many as [are] righteous, as many as [are] pure, as many as [are] lovely, as many as [are] of good report, if any worthiness, and if any praise, these things think upon;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> the things that also ye did learn, and receive, and hear, and saw in me, those do, and the God of the peace shall be with you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at length ye flourished again in caring for me, for which also ye were caring, and lacked opportunity;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> not that in respect of want I say [it], for I did learn in the things in which I am--to be content;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have known both to be abased, and I have known to abound; in everything and in all things I have been initiated, both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to be in want.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For all things I have strength, in Christ's strengthening me;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but ye did well, having communicated with my tribulation;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and ye have known, even ye Philippians, that in the beginning of the good news when I went forth from Macedonia, no assembly did communicate with me in regard to giving and receiving except ye only;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> because also in Thessalonica, both once and again to my need ye sent;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> not that I seek after the gift, but I seek after the fruit that is overflowing to your account;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and I have all things, and abound; I am filled, having received from Epaphroditus the things from you--an odour of a sweet smell--a sacrifice acceptable, well-pleasing to God:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and my God shall supply all your need, according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and to God, even our Father, [is] the glory--to the ages of the ages. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Salute ye every saint in Christ Jesus; there salute you the brethren with me;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> there salute you all the saints, and specially those of Caesar's house;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ [is] with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>