<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Colossians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Colossians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The masters! that which is righteous and equal to the servants give ye, having known that ye also have a Master in the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the prayer continue ye, watching in it in thanksgiving;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> praying at the same time also for us, that God may open to us a door for the word, to speak the secret of the Christ, because of which also I have been bound,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> that I may manifest it, as it behoveth me to speak;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> in wisdom walk ye toward those without, the time forestalling;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> your word always in grace--with salt being seasoned--to know how it behoveth you to answer each one.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the things concerning me make known to you shall Tychicus--the beloved brother, and faithful ministrant, and fellow-servant in the Lord--</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> whom I did send unto you for this very thing, that he might know the things concerning you, and might comfort your hearts,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> with Onesimus the faithful and beloved brother, who is of you; all things to you shall they make known that [are] here.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Salute you doth Aristarchus, my fellow-captive, and Marcus, the nephew of Barnabas, (concerning whom ye did receive commands--if he may come unto you receive him,)</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Jesus who is called Justus, who are of the circumcision: these only [are] fellow-workers for the reign of God who did become a comfort to me.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Salute you doth Epaphras, who [is] of you, a servant of Christ, always striving for you in the prayers, that ye may stand perfect and made full in all the will of God,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for I do testify to him, that he hath much zeal for you, and those in Laodicea, and those in Hierapolis.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Salute you doth Lukas, the beloved physician, and Demas;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> salute ye those in Laodicea--brethren, and Nymphas, and the assembly in his house;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and when the epistle may be read with you, cause that also in the assembly of the Laodiceans it may be read, and the [epistle] from Laodicea that ye also may read;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and say to Archippus, `See to the ministration that thou didst receive in the Lord, that thou mayest fulfil it.'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The salutation by the hand of me, Paul; remember my bonds; the grace [is] with you. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>