<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I do fully testify, then, before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who is about to judge living and dead at his manifestation and his reign--</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> preach the word; be earnest in season, out of season, convict, rebuke, exhort, in all long-suffering and teaching,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for there shall be a season when the sound teaching they will not suffer, but according to their own desires to themselves they shall heap up teachers--itching in the hearing,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and indeed, from the truth the hearing they shall turn away, and to the fables they shall be turned aside.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And thou--watch in all things; suffer evil; do the work of one proclaiming good news; of thy ministration make full assurance,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for I am already being poured out, and the time of my release hath arrived;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> the good strife I have striven, the course I have finished, the faith I have kept,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of the righteousness that the Lord--the Righteous Judge--shall give to me in that day, and not only to me, but also to all those loving his manifestation.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be diligent to come unto me quickly,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for Demas forsook me, having loved the present age, and went on to Thessalonica, Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lukas only is with me; Markus having taken, bring with thyself, for he is profitable to me for ministration;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Tychicus I sent to Ephesus;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> the cloak that I left in Troas with Carpus, coming, bring thou and the books-- especially the parchments.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil; may the Lord repay to him according to his works,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> of whom also do thou beware, for greatly hath he stood against our words;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> in my first defence no one stood with me, but all forsook me, (may it not be reckoned to them!)</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the Lord stood by me, and did strengthen me, that through me the preaching might be fully assured, and all the nations might hear, and I was freed out of the mouth of a lion,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and the Lord shall free me from every evil work, and shall save [me] --to his heavenly kingdom; to whom [is] the glory to the ages of the ages! Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Salute Prisca and Aquilas, and Onesiphorus' household;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Erastus did remain in Corinth, and Trophimus I left in Miletus infirm;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> be diligent to come before winter. Salute thee doth Eubulus, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Lord Jesus Christ [is] with thy spirit; the grace [is] with you! Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>