<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philemon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philemon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timotheus the brother, to Philemon our beloved and fellow-worker,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and Apphia the beloved, and Archippus our fellow-soldier, and the assembly in thy house:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I give thanks to my God, always making mention of thee in my prayers,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> hearing of thy love and faith that thou hast unto the Lord Jesus and toward all the saints,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that the fellowship of thy faith may become working in the full knowledge of every good thing that [is] in you toward Christ Jesus;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for we have much joy and comfort in thy love, because the bowels of the saints have been refreshed through thee, brother.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wherefore, having in Christ much boldness to command thee that which is fit--</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> because of the love I rather entreat, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I entreat thee concerning my child--whom I did beget in my bonds--Onesimus,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> who once was to thee unprofitable, and now is profitable to me and to thee,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> whom I did send again, and thou him (that is, my own bowels) receive,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> whom I did wish to retain to myself, that in thy behalf he might minister to me in the bonds of the good news,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and apart from thy mind I willed to do nothing, that as of necessity thy good deed may not be, but of willingness,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for perhaps because of this he did depart for an hour, that age-duringly thou mayest have him,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> no more as a servant, but above a servant--a brother beloved, especially to me, and how much more to thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If, then, with me thou hast fellowship, receive him as me,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and if he did hurt to thee, or doth owe anything, this to me be reckoning;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I, Paul did write with my hand, I--I will repay; that I may not say that also thyself, besides, to me thou dost owe.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yes, brother, may I have profit of thee in the Lord; refresh my bowels in the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> having been confident in thy obedience I did write to thee, having known that also above what I may say thou wilt do;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and at the same time also prepare for me a lodging, for I hope that through your prayers I shall be granted to you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Salute thee doth Epaphras, (my fellow-captive in Christ Jesus,)</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Markus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lukas, my fellow-workmen!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ [is] with your spirit! Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>