<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let brotherly love remain;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> of the hospitality be not forgetful, for through this unawares certain did entertain messengers;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> be mindful of those in bonds, as having been bound with them, of those maltreated, as also yourselves being in the body;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> honourable [is] the marriage in all, and the bed undefiled, and whoremongers and adulterers God shall judge.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Without covetousness the behaviour, being content with the things present, for He hath said, `No, I will not leave, no, nor forsake thee,'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so that we do boldly say, `The Lord [is] to me a helper, and I will not fear what man shall do to me.'</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be mindful of those leading you, who did speak to you the word of God, whose faith--considering the issue of the behaviour--be imitating,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jesus Christ yesterday and to-day the same, and to the ages;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> with teachings manifold and strange be not carried about, for [it is] good that by grace the heart be confirmed, not with meats, in which they who were occupied were not profited;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> we have an altar, of which to eat they have no authority who the tabernacle are serving,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for of those beasts whose blood is brought for sin into the holy places through the chief priest--of these the bodies are burned without the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore, also Jesus--that he might sanctify through [his] own blood the people-- without the gate did suffer;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> now, then, may we go forth unto him without the camp, his reproach bearing;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for we have not here an abiding city, but the coming one we seek;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> through him, then, we may offer up a sacrifice of praise always to God, that is, the fruit of lips, giving thanks to His name;</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and of doing good, and of fellowship, be not forgetful, for with such sacrifices God is well-pleased.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Be obedient to those leading you, and be subject, for these do watch for your souls, as about to give account, that with joy they may do this, and not sighing, for this [is] unprofitable to you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Pray for us, for we trust that we have a good conscience, in all things willing to behave well,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and more abundantly do I call upon [you] to do this, that more quickly I may be restored to you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the God of the peace, who did bring up out of the dead the great shepherd of the sheep--in the blood of an age-during covenant--our Lord Jesus,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> make you perfect in every good work to do His will, doing in you that which is well-pleasing before Him, through Jesus Christ, to whom [is] the glory--to the ages of the ages! Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I entreat you, brethren, suffer the word of the exhortation, for also through few words I have written to you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Know ye that the brother Timotheus is released, with whom, if he may come more shortly, I will see you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Salute all those leading you, and all the saints; salute you doth those from Italy:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> the grace [is] with you all! Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>