<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whence [are] wars and fightings among you? not thence--out of your passions, that are as soldiers in your members?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> ye desire, and ye have not; ye murder, and are zealous, and are not able to attain; ye fight and war, and ye have not, because of your not asking;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> ye ask, and ye receive not, because evilly ye ask, that in your pleasures ye may spend [it].</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Adulterers and adulteresses! have ye not known that friendship of the world is enmity with God? whoever, then, may counsel to be a friend of the world, an enemy of God he is set.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Do ye think that emptily the Writing saith, `To envy earnestly desireth the spirit that did dwell in us,'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and greater grace he doth give, wherefore he saith, `God against proud ones doth set Himself up, and to lowly ones He doth give grace?'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> be subject, then, to God; stand up against the devil, and he will flee from you;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to you; cleanse hands, ye sinners! and purify hearts, ye two-souled!</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> be exceeding afflicted, and mourn, and weep, let your laughter to mourning be turned, and the joy to heaviness;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> be made low before the Lord, and He shall exalt you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Speak not one against another, brethren; he who is speaking against a brother, and is judging his brother, doth speak against law, and doth judge law, and if law thou dost judge, thou art not a doer of law but a judge;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> one is the lawgiver, who is able to save and to destroy; thou--who art thou that dost judge the other?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Go, now, ye who are saying, `To-day and to-morrow we will go on to such a city, and will pass there one year, and traffic, and make gain;'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> who do not know the thing of the morrow; for what is your life? for it is a vapour that is appearing for a little, and then is vanishing;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> instead of your saying, `If the Lord may will, we shall live, and do this or that;'</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and now ye glory in your pride; all such glorying is evil;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> to him, then, knowing to do good, and not doing, sin it is to him.</p>

</body>
</html>