<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My brethren, hold not, in respect of persons, the faith of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for if there may come into your synagogue a man with gold ring, in gay raiment, and there may come in also a poor man in vile raiment,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and ye may look upon him bearing the gay raiment, and may say to him, `Thou--sit thou here well,' and to the poor man may say, `Thou--stand thou there, or, Sit thou here under my footstool,' --</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> ye did not judge fully in yourselves, and did become ill-reasoning judges.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hearken, my brethren beloved, did not God choose the poor of this world, rich in faith, and heirs of the reign that He promised to those loving Him?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and ye did dishonour the poor one; do not the rich oppress you and themselves draw you to judgment-seats;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> do they not themselves speak evil of the good name that was called upon you?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If, indeed, royal law ye complete, according to the Writing, `Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself,' --ye do well;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and if ye accept persons, sin ye do work, being convicted by the law as transgressors;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for whoever the whole law shall keep, and shall stumble in one [point], he hath become guilty of all;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for He who is saying, `Thou mayest not commit adultery,' said also, `Thou mayest do no murder;' and if thou shalt not commit adultery, and shalt commit murder, thou hast become a transgressor of law;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> so speak ye and so do, as about by a law of liberty to be judged,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for the judgment without kindness [is] to him not having done kindness, and exult doth kindness over judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What [is] the profit, my brethren, if faith, any one may speak of having, and works he may not have? is that faith able to save him?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and if a brother or sister may be naked, and may be destitute of the daily food,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and any one of you may say to them, `Depart ye in peace, be warmed, and be filled,' and may not give to them the things needful for the body, what [is] the profit?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> so also the faith, if it may not have works, is dead by itself.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But say may some one, Thou hast faith, and I have works, shew me thy faith out of thy works, and I will shew thee out of my works my faith:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> thou--thou dost believe that God is one; thou dost well, and the demons believe, and they shudder!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And dost thou wish to know, O vain man, that the faith apart from the works is dead?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Abraham our father--was not he declared righteous out of works, having brought up Isaac his son upon the altar?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> dost thou see that the faith was working with his works, and out of the works the faith was perfected?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and fulfilled was the Writing that is saying, `And Abraham did believe God, and it was reckoned to him--to righteousness;' and, `Friend of God' he was called.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Ye see, then, that out of works is man declared righteous, and not out of faith only;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and in like manner also Rahab the harlot--was she not out of works declared righteous, having received the messengers, and by another way having sent forth?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also the faith apart from the works is dead.</p>

</body>
</html>