<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Elders who [are] among you, I exhort, who [am] a fellow-elder, and a witness of the sufferings of the Christ, and of the glory about to be revealed a partaker,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> feed the flock of God that [is] among you, overseeing not constrainedly, but willingly, neither for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> neither as exercising lordship over the heritages, but patterns becoming of the flock,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and at the manifestation of the chief Shepherd, ye shall receive the unfading crown of glory.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In like manner, ye younger, be subject to elders, and all to one another subjecting yourselves; with humble-mindedness clothe yourselves, because God the proud doth resist, but to the humble He doth give grace;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> be humbled, then, under the powerful hand of God, that you He may exalt in good time,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> all your care having cast upon Him, because He careth for you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be sober, vigilant, because your opponent the devil, as a roaring lion, doth walk about, seeking whom he may swallow up,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> whom resist, stedfast in the faith, having known the same sufferings to your brotherhood in the world to be accomplished.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the God of all grace, who did call you to His age-during glory in Christ Jesus, having suffered a little, Himself make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle [you];</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> to Him [is] the glory, and the power--to the ages and the ages! Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Through Silvanus, to you the faithful brother, as I reckon, through few [words] I did write, exhorting and testifying this to be the true grace of God in which ye have stood.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Salute you doth the [assembly] in Babylon jointly elected, and Markus my son.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Salute ye one another in a kiss of love; peace to you all who [are] in Christ Jesus! Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>