<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>3 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>3 John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Elder to Gaius the beloved, whom I love in truth!</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> beloved, concerning all things I desire thee to prosper, and to be in health, even as thy soul doth prosper,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for I rejoiced exceedingly, brethren coming and testifying of the truth in thee, even as thou in truth dost walk;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> greater than these things I have no joy, that I may hear of my children in truth walking.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Beloved, faithfully dost thou do whatever thou mayest work to the brethren and to the strangers,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who did testify of thy love before an assembly, whom thou wilt do well, having sent forward worthily of God,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> because for [His] name they went forth, nothing receiving from the nations;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> we, then, ought to receive such, that fellow-workers we may become to the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I did write to the assembly, but he who is loving the first place among them-- Diotrephes--doth not receive us;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> because of this, if I may come, I will cause him to remember his works that he doth, with evil words prating against us; and not content with these, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and those intending he doth forbid, and out of the assembly he doth cast.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Beloved, be not thou following that which is evil, but that which is good; he who is doing good, of God he is, and he who is doing evil hath not seen God;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> to Demetrius testimony hath been given by all, and by the truth itself, and we also-- we do testify, and ye have known that our testimony is true.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Many things I had to write, but I do not wish through ink and pen to write to thee,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and I hope straightway to see thee, and mouth to mouth we shall speak. Peace to thee! salute thee do the friends; be saluting the friends by name.</p>

</body>
</html>