<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And to the messenger of the assembly in Sardis write: These things saith he who is having the Seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars: I have known thy works, and that thou hast the name that thou dost live, and thou art dead;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> become watching, and strengthen the rest of the things that are about to die, for I have not found thy works fulfilled before God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> `Remember, then, how thou hast received, and heard, and be keeping, and reform: if, then, thou mayest not watch, I will come upon thee as a thief, and thou mayest not know what hour I will come upon thee.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou hast a few names even in Sardis who did not defile their garments, and they shall walk with me in white, because they are worthy.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He who is overcoming--this one--shall be arrayed in white garments, and I will not blot out his name from the scroll of the life, and I will confess his name before my Father, and before His messengers.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He who is having an ear--let him hear what the Spirit saith to the assemblies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> `And to the messenger of the assembly in Philadelphia write: These things saith he who is holy, he who is true, he who is having the key of David, he who is opening and no one doth shut, and he shutteth and no one doth open!</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have known thy works; lo, I have set before thee a door--opened, and no one is able to shut it, because thou hast a little power, and didst keep my word, and didst not deny my name;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> lo, I make of the synagogue of the Adversary those saying themselves to be Jews, and are not, but do lie; lo, I will make them that they may come and bow before thy feet, and may know that I loved thee.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> `Because thou didst keep the word of my endurance, I also will keep thee from the hour of the trial that is about to come upon all the world, to try those dwelling upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, I come quickly, be holding fast that which thou hast, that no one may receive thy crown.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He who is overcoming--I will make him a pillar in the sanctuary of my God, and without he may not go any more, and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, that doth come down out ofthe heaven from my God--also my new name.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He who is having an ear--let him hear what the Spirit saith to the assemblies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> `And to the messenger of the assembly of the Laodiceans write: These things saith the Amen, the witness--the faithful and true--the chief of the creation of God;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have known thy works, that neither cold art thou nor hot; I would thou wert cold or hot.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So--because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I am about to vomit thee out of my mouth;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> because thou sayest--I am rich, and have grown rich, and have need of nothing, and hast not known that thou art the wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I counsel thee to buy from me gold fired by fire, that thou mayest be rich, and white garments that thou mayest be arrayed, and the shame of thy nakedness may not be manifest, and with eye-salve anoint thine eyes, that thou mayest see.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> `As many as I love, I do convict and chasten; be zealous, then, and reform;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> lo, I have stood at the door, and I knock; if any one may hear my voice, and may open the door, I will come in unto him, and will sup with him, and he with me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He who is overcoming--I will give to him to sit with me in my throne, as I also did overcome and did sit down with my Father in His throne.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He who is having an ear--let him hear what the Spirit saith to the assemblies.'</p>

</body>
</html>