<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, namely, of Shem, Ham, and Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Of these were the isles of the nations divided in their lands, every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca; and the sons of Raamah: Sheba, and Dedan. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He was a mighty hunter before Jehovah: wherefore it is said, Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before Jehovah. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Out of that land he went forth into Assyria, and builded Nineveh, and Rehoboth-Ir, and Calah, <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Resen between Nineveh and Calah (the same is the great city). <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim, <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Pathrusim, and Casluhim (whence went forth the Philistines), and Caphtorim.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Canaan begat Sidon his first-born, and Heth, <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite, <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the Canaanite spread abroad. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the border of the Canaanite was from Sidon, as thou goest toward Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest toward Sodom and Gomorrah and Admah and Zeboiim, unto Lasha. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, in their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And unto Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, to him also were children born. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the sons of Aram: Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Arpachshad begat Shelah; and Shelah begat Eber. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg. For in his days was the earth divided. And his brother’s name was Joktan. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these were the sons of Joktan. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest toward Sephar, the mountain of the east. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations: and of these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.</p>

</body>
</html>