<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him. <a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jacob said when he saw them, This is God’s host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the field of Edom. <a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye say unto my lord Esau: Thus saith thy servant Jacob, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed until now: <a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and I have oxen, and asses, and flocks, and men-servants, and maid-servants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find favor in thy sight. <a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and moreover he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him. <a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then Jacob was greatly afraid and was distressed: and he divided the people that were with him, and the flocks, and the herds, and the camels, into two companies; <a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and he said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the company which is left shall escape. <a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, O Jehovah, who saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will do thee good: <a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I am not worthy of the least of all the lovingkindnesses, and of all the truth, which thou hast showed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two companies. <a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he come and smite me, the mother with the children. <a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he lodged there that night, and took of that which he had with him a present for Esau his brother: <a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> two hundred she-goats and twenty he-goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams, <a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> thirty milch camels and their colts, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty she-asses and ten foals. <a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by itself, and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space betwixt drove and drove. <a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither goest thou? and whose are these before thee? <a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> then thou shalt say They are thy servant Jacob’s; it is a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, he also is behind us. <a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he commanded also the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau, when ye find him; <a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and ye shall say, Moreover, behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept me. <a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So the present passed over before him: and he himself lodged that night in the company.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two handmaids, and his eleven children, and passed over the ford of the Jabbok. <a id="c32_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he took them, and sent them over the stream, and sent over that which he had. <a id="c32_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. <a id="c32_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob’s thigh was strained, as he wrestled with him. <a id="c32_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me. <a id="c32_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob. <a id="c32_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for thou hast striven with God and with men, and hast prevailed. <a id="c32_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there. <a id="c32_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for, said he, I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved. <a id="c32_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the sun rose upon him as he passed over Penuel, and he limped upon his thigh. <a id="c32_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Therefore the children of Israel eat not the sinew of the hip which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob’s thigh in the sinew of the hip.</p>

</body>
</html>