<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Moses was keeping the flock of Jethro his father-in-law, the priest of Midian: and he led the flock to the back of the wilderness, and came to the mountain of God, unto Horeb. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the angel of Jehovah appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Moses said, I will turn aside now, and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when Jehovah saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face; for he was afraid to look upon God. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jehovah said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people that are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters; for I know their sorrows; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land unto a good land and a large, unto a land flowing with milk and honey; unto the place of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me: moreover I have seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppress them. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Moses said unto God, Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt? <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he said, Certainly I will be with thee; and this shall be the token unto thee, that I have sent thee: when thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel, and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me unto you; and they shall say to me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And God said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM: and he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me unto you. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you: this is my name forever, and this is my memorial unto all generations. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and say unto them, Jehovah, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, hath appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you, and seen that which is done to you in Egypt: <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Amorite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite, unto a land flowing with milk and honey. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they shall hearken to thy voice: and thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall say unto him, Jehovah, the God of the Hebrews, hath met with us: and now let us go, we pray thee, three days’ journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to Jehovah our God. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I know that the king of Egypt will not give you leave to go, no, not by a mighty hand. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And I will put forth my hand, and smite Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in the midst thereof: and after that he will let you go. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians: and it shall come to pass, that, when ye go, ye shall not go empty. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But every woman shall ask of her neighbor, and of her that sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment: and ye shall put them upon your sons, and upon your daughters; and ye shall despoil the Egyptians.</p>

</body>
</html>