<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And thou shalt make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height thereof shall be three cubits. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof; the horns thereof shall be of one piece with it: and thou shalt overlay it with brass. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt make its pots to take away its ashes, and its shovels, and its basins, and its flesh-hooks, and its firepans: all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou shalt make for it a grating of network of brass: and upon the net shalt thou make four brazen rings in the four corners thereof. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And thou shalt put it under the ledge round the altar beneath, that the net may reach halfway up the altar. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of acacia wood, and overlay them with brass. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the staves thereof shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, in bearing it. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hollow with planks shalt thou make it: as it hath been showed thee in the mount, so shall they make it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen a hundred cubits long for one side: <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the pillars thereof shall be twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings a hundred cubits long, and the pillars thereof twenty, and their sockets twenty, of brass; the hooks of the pillars, and their fillets, of silver. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their sockets ten. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits. <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And for the other side shall be hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And for the gate of the court shall be a screen of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, the work of the embroiderer; their pillars four, and their sockets four. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the pillars of the court round about shall be filleted with silver; their hooks of silver, and their sockets of brass. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits, of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All the instruments of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring unto thee pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In the tent of meeting, without the veil which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall keep it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah: it shall be a statue for ever throughout their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>