<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these are the ordinances which thou shalt set before them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If thou buy a Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If he come in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if he be married, then his wife shall go out with him. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If his master give him a wife and she bear him sons or daughters; the wife and her children shall be her master’s, and he shall go out by himself. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free: <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> then his master shall bring him unto God, and shall bring him to the door, or unto the door-post; and his master shall bore his ear through with an awl; and he shall serve him for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And if a man sell his daughter to be a maid-servant, she shall not go out as the men-servants do. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If she please not her master, who hath espoused her to himself, then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a foreign people he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And if he espouse her unto his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty of marriage, shall he not diminish. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And if he do not these three things unto her, then shall she go out for nothing, without money.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He that smiteth a man, so that he dieth, shall surely be put to death. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand; then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if a man come presumptuously upon his neighbor, to slay him with guile; thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surely put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he that curseth his father or his mother, shall surely be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And if men contend, and one smite the other with a stone, or with his fist, and he die not, but keep his bed; <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> if he rise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote him be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall cause him to be thoroughly healed.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he die under his hand; he shall surely be punished. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not be punished: for he is his money.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And if men strive together, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit depart, and yet no harm follow; he shall be surely fined, according as the woman’s husband shall lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But if any harm follow, then thou shalt give life for life, <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And if a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his maid, and destroy it; he shall let him go free for his eye’s sake. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And if he smite out his man-servant’s tooth, or his maid-servant’s tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth’s sake.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And if an ox gore a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be surely stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be quit. <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But if the ox was wont to gore in time past, and it hath been testified to its owner, and he hath not kept it in, but it hath killed a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned, and its owner also shall be put to death. <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If there be laid on him a ransom, then he shall give for the redemption of his life whatsoever is laid upon him. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Whether it have gored a son, or have gored a daughter, according to this judgment shall it be done unto him. <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If the ox gore a man-servant or a maid-servant, there shall be given unto their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And if a man shall open a pit, or if a man shall dig a pit and not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall therein, <a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> the owner of the pit shall make it good; he shall give money unto the owner thereof, and the dead beast shall be his.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And if one man’s ox hurt another’s, so that it dieth, then they shall sell the live ox, and divide the price of it: and the dead also they shall divide. <a id="c21_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Or if it be known that the ox was wont to gore in time past, and its owner hath not kept it in, he shall surely pay ox for ox, and the dead beast shall be his own.</p>

</body>
</html>