<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And God spake all these words, saying, <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I am Jehovah thy God, who brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou shalt have no other gods before me.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou shalt not make unto thee a graven image, nor any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou shalt not bow down thyself unto them, nor serve them, for I Jehovah thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, upon the third and upon the fourth generation of them that hate me, <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and showing lovingkindness unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou shalt not take the name of Jehovah thy God in vain; for Jehovah will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Six days shalt thou labor, and do all thy work; <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but the seventh day is a sabbath unto Jehovah thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates: <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for in six days Jehovah made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore Jehovah blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long in the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou shalt not kill.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou shalt not commit adultery.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou shalt not steal.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is thy neighbor’s.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And all the people perceived the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the voice of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the people saw it, they trembled, and stood afar off. <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear; but let not God speak with us, lest we die. <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come to prove you, and that his fear may be before you, that ye sin not. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jehovah said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, Ye yourselves have seen that I have talked with you from heaven. <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ye shall not make other gods with me; gods of silver, or gods of gold, ye shall not make unto you. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt-offerings, and thy peace-offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen: in every place where I record my name I will come unto thee and I will bless thee. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And if thou make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build it of hewn stones; for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy nakedness be not uncovered thereon.</p>

</body>
</html>