<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, I am Jehovah your God. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein ye dwelt, shall ye not do: and after the doings of the land of Canaan, whither I bring you, shall ye not do; neither shall ye walk in their statutes. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Mine ordinances shall ye do, and my statutes shall ye keep, to walk therein: I am Jehovah your God. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ye shall therefore keep my statutes, and mine ordinances; which if a man do, he shall live in them: I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> None of you shall approach to any that are near of kin to him, to uncover their nakedness: I am Jehovah. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The nakedness of thy father, even the nakedness of thy mother, shalt thou not uncover: she is thy mother; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The nakedness of thy father’s wife shalt thou not uncover: it is thy father’s nakedness. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or the daughter of thy mother, whether born at home, or born abroad, even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The nakedness of thy son’s daughter, or of thy daughter’s daughter, even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover: for theirs is thine own nakedness. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The nakedness of thy father’s wife’s daughter, begotten of thy father, she is thy sister, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father’s sister: she is thy father’s near kinswoman. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother’s sister: for she is thy mother’s near kinswoman. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father’s brother, thou shalt not approach to his wife: she is thine aunt. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter-in-law: she is thy son’s wife; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy brother’s wife: it is thy brother’s nakedness. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter; thou shalt not take her son’s daughter, or her daughter’s daughter, to uncover her nakedness; they are near kinswomen: it is wickedness. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And thou shalt not take a wife to her sister, to be a rival to her, to uncover her nakedness, besides the other in her life-time.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And thou shalt not approach unto a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is impure by her uncleanness. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And thou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbor’s wife, to defile thyself with her. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And thou shalt not give any of thy seed to make them pass through the fire to Molech; neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am Jehovah. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And thou shalt not lie with any beast to defile thyself therewith; neither shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie down thereto: it is confusion.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Defile not ye yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations are defiled which I cast out from before you; <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the land is defiled: therefore I do visit the iniquity thereof upon it, and the land vomiteth out her inhabitants. <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Ye therefore shall keep my statutes and mine ordinances, and shall not do any of these abominations; neither the home-born, nor the stranger that sojourneth among you; <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> (for all these abominations have the men of the land done, that were before you, and the land is defiled); <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> that the land vomit not you out also, when ye defile it, as it vomited out the nation that was before you. <a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For whosoever shall do any of these abominations, even the souls that do them shall be cut off from among their people. <a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Therefore shall ye keep my charge, that ye practise not any of these abominable customs, which were practised before you, and that ye defile not yourselves therein: I am Jehovah your God.</p>

</body>
</html>