<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel; <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he said unto Aaron, Take thee a calf of the herd for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish, and offer them before Jehovah. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And unto the children of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, Take ye a he-goat for a sin-offering; and a calf and a lamb, both a year old, without blemish, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and an ox and a ram for peace-offerings, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and a meal-offering mingled with oil: for to-day Jehovah appeareth unto you. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tent of meeting: and all the congregation drew near and stood before Jehovah. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses said, This is the thing which Jehovah commanded that ye should do: and the glory of Jehovah shall appear unto you. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Moses said unto Aaron, Draw near unto the altar, and offer thy sin-offering, and thy burnt-offering, and make atonement for thyself, and for the people; and offer the oblation of the people, and make atonement for them; as Jehovah commanded.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So Aaron drew near unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin-offering, which was for himself. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the sons of Aaron presented the blood unto him; and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar: <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul from the liver of the sin-offering, he burnt upon the altar; as Jehovah commanded Moses. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the flesh and the skin he burnt with fire without the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he slew the burnt-offering; and Aaron’s sons delivered unto him the blood, and he sprinkled it upon the altar round about. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they delivered the burnt-offering unto him, piece by piece, and the head: and he burnt them upon the altar. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he washed the inwards and the legs, and burnt them upon the burnt-offering on the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he presented the people’s oblation, and took the goat of the sin-offering which was for the people, and slew it, and offered it for sin, as the first. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he presented the burnt-offering, and offered it according to the ordinance. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he presented the meal-offering, and filled his hand therefrom, and burnt it upon the altar, besides the burnt-offering of the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He slew also the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace-offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron’s sons delivered unto him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about, <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the fat of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covereth the inwards, and the kidneys, and the caul of the liver: <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar: <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave-offering before Jehovah; as Moses commanded.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people, and blessed them; and he came down from offering the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of Jehovah appeared unto all the people. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And there came forth fire from before Jehovah, and consumed upon the altar the burnt-offering and the fat: and when all the people saw it, they shouted, and fell on their faces.</p>

</body>
</html>