<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace-offerings; if he offer of the herd, whether male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before Jehovah. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it at the door of the tent of meeting: and Aaron’s sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace-offerings an offering made by fire unto Jehovah; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Aaron’s sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt-offering, which is upon the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if his oblation for a sacrifice of peace-offerings unto Jehovah be of the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If he offer a lamb for his oblation, then shall he offer it before Jehovah; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and he shall lay his hand upon the head of his oblation, and kill it before the tent of meeting: and Aaron’s sons shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he shall offer of the sacrifice of peace-offerings an offering made by fire unto Jehovah; the fat thereof, the fat tail entire, he shall take away hard by the backbone; and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire unto Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And if his oblation be a goat, then he shall offer it before Jehovah: <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tent of meeting; and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he shall offer thereof his oblation, even an offering made by fire unto Jehovah; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards, <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the loins, and the caul upon the liver, with the kidneys, shall he take away. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire, for a sweet savor; all the fat is Jehovah’s. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations in all your dwellings, that ye shall eat neither fat nor blood.</p>

</body>
</html>