<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when any one offereth an oblation of a meal-offering unto Jehovah, his oblation shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon: <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he shall bring it to Aaron’s sons the priests; and he shall take thereout his handful of the fine flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; and the priest shall burn it as the memorial thereof upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah: <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and that which is left of the meal-offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’: it is a thing most holy of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when thou offerest an oblation of a meal-offering baken in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And if thy oblation be a meal-offering of the baking-pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a meal-offering. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And if thy oblation be a meal-offering of the frying-pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou shalt bring the meal-offering that is made of these things unto Jehovah: and it shall be presented unto the priest, and he shall bring it unto the altar. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the priest shall take up from the meal-offering the memorial thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And that which is left of the meal-offering shall be Aaron’s and his sons’: it is a thing most holy of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> No meal-offering, which ye shall offer unto Jehovah, shall be made with leaven; for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, as an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As an oblation of first- fruits ye shall offer them unto Jehovah: but they shall not come up for a sweet savor on the altar. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And every oblation of thy meal-offering shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meal-offering: with all thine oblations thou shalt offer salt.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if thou offer a meal-offering of first-fruits unto Jehovah, thou shalt offer for the meal-offering of thy first-fruits grain in the ear parched with fire, bruised grain of the fresh ear. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a meal-offering. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the bruised grain thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof: it is an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>