<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, The set feasts of Jehovah, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my set feasts. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Six days shall work be done: but on the seventh day is a sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of work: it is a sabbath unto Jehovah in all your dwellings.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These are the set feasts of Jehovah, even holy convocations, which ye shall proclaim in their appointed season. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, is Jehovah’s passover. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread unto Jehovah: seven days ye shall eat unleavened bread. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the first day ye shall have a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah seven days: in the seventh day is a holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye are come into the land which I give unto you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye shall bring the sheaf of the first-fruits of your harvest unto the priest: <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and he shall wave the sheaf before Jehovah, to be accepted for you: on the morrow after the sabbath the priest shall wave it. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And in the day when ye wave the sheaf, ye shall offer a he-lamb without blemish a year old for a burnt-offering unto Jehovah. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the meal-offering thereof shall be two tenth parts of an ephah of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire unto Jehovah for a sweet savor; and the drink-offering thereof shall be of wine, the fourth part of a hin. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched grain, nor fresh ears, until this selfsame day, until ye have brought the oblation of your God: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And ye shall count unto you from the morrow after the sabbath, from the day that ye brought the sheaf of the wave-offering; seven sabbaths shall there be complete: <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> even unto the morrow after the seventh sabbath shall ye number fifty days; and ye shall offer a new meal-offering unto Jehovah. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Ye shall bring out of your habitations two wave-loaves of two tenth parts of an ephah: they shall be of fine flour, they shall be baken with leaven, for first-fruits unto Jehovah. <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And ye shall present with the bread seven lambs without blemish a year old, and one young bullock, and two rams: they shall be a burnt-offering unto Jehovah, with their meal-offering, and their drink-offerings, even an offering made by fire, of a sweet savor unto Jehovah. <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And ye shall offer one he-goat for a sin-offering, and two he-lambs a year old for a sacrifice of peace-offerings. <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the first-fruits for a wave-offering before Jehovah, with the two lambs: they shall be holy to Jehovah for the priest. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And ye shall make proclamation on the selfsame day; there shall be a holy convocation unto you; ye shall do no servile work: it is a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest: thou shalt leave them for the poor, and for the sojourner: I am Jehovah your God.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, on the first day of the month, shall be a solemn rest unto you, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, a holy convocation. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Ye shall do no servile work; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Howbeit on the tenth day of this seventh month is the day of atonement: it shall be a holy convocation unto you, and ye shall afflict your souls; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And ye shall do no manner of work in that same day; for it is a day of atonement, to make atonement for you before Jehovah your God. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For whatsoever soul it be that shall not be afflicted in that same day; he shall be cut off from his people. <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And whatsoever soul it be that doeth any manner of work in that same day, that soul will I destroy from among his people. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Ye shall do no manner of work: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings. <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It shall be unto you a sabbath of solemn rest, and ye shall afflict your souls: in the ninth day of the month at even, from even unto even, shall ye keep your sabbath.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, On the fifteenth day of this seventh month is the feast of tabernacles for seven days unto Jehovah. <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> On the first day shall be a holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work. <a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah: on the eighth day shall be a holy convocation unto you; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah: it is a solemn assembly; ye shall do no servile work.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> These are the set feasts of Jehovah, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire unto Jehovah, a burnt-offering, and a meal-offering, a sacrifice, and drink-offerings, each on its own day; <a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> besides the sabbaths of Jehovah, and besides your gifts, and besides all your vows, and besides all your freewill-offerings, which ye give unto Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Howbeit on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruits of the land, ye shall keep the feast of Jehovah seven days: on the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest. <a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And ye shall take you on the first day the fruit of goodly trees, branches of palm-trees, and boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before Jehovah your God seven days. <a id="c23_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And ye shall keep it a feast unto Jehovah seven days in the year: it is a statute for ever throughout your generations; ye shall keep it in the seventh month. <a id="c23_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are home-born in Israel shall dwell in booths; <a id="c23_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> that your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I am Jehovah your God. <a id="c23_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Moses declared unto the children of Israel the set feasts of Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>