<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Command the children of Israel, that they bring unto thee pure olive oil beaten for the light, to cause a lamp to burn continually. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Without the veil of the testimony, in the tent of meeting, shall Aaron keep it in order from evening to morning before Jehovah continually: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall keep in order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before Jehovah continually.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And thou shalt take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes thereof: two tenth parts of an ephah shall be in one cake. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before Jehovah. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou shalt put pure frankincense upon each row, that it may be to the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire unto Jehovah. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Every sabbath day he shall set it in order before Jehovah continually; it is on the behalf of the children of Israel, an everlasting covenant. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it shall be for Aaron and his sons; and they shall eat it in a holy place: for it is most holy unto him of the offerings of Jehovah made by fire by a perpetual statute.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the son of an Israelitish woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel; and the son of the Israelitish woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp: <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the son of the Israelitish woman blasphemed the Name, and cursed; and they brought him unto Moses. And his mother’s name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they put him in ward, that it might be declared unto them at the mouth of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Bring forth him that hath cursed without the camp; and let all that heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Whosoever curseth his God shall bear his sin. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he that blasphemeth the name of Jehovah, he shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall certainly stone him: as well the sojourner, as the home-born, when he blasphemeth the name of Jehovah, shall be put to death. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he that smiteth any man mortally shall surely be put to death. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he that smiteth a beast mortally shall make it good, life for life. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And if a man cause a blemish in his neighbor; as he hath done, so shall it be done to him: <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; as he hath caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be rendered unto him. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he that killeth a beast shall make it good: and he that killeth a man shall be put to death. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Ye shall have one manner of law, as well for the sojourner, as for the home-born: for I am Jehovah your God. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Moses spake to the children of Israel; and they brought forth him that had cursed out of the camp, and stoned him with stones. And the children of Israel did as Jehovah commanded Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>