<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy; for I Jehovah your God am holy. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father; and ye shall keep my sabbaths: I am Jehovah your God. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am Jehovah your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when ye offer a sacrifice of peace-offerings unto Jehovah, ye shall offer it that ye may be accepted. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the morrow: and if aught remain until the third day, it shall be burnt with fire. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is an abomination; it shall not be accepted: <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity, because he hath profaned the holy thing of Jehovah: and that soul shall be cut off from his people.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleaning of thy harvest. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather the fallen fruit of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am Jehovah your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ye shall not steal; neither shall ye deal falsely, nor lie one to another. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, and profane the name of thy God: I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou shalt not oppress thy neighbor, nor rob him: the wages of a hired servant shall not abide with thee all night until the morning. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before the blind; but thou shalt fear thy God: I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty; but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbor. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou shalt not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people: neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbor: I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thy heart: thou shalt surely rebuke thy neighbor, and not bear sin because of him. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou shalt not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people; but thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself: I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle gender with a diverse kind: thou shalt not sow thy field with two kinds of seed: neither shall there come upon thee a garment of two kinds of stuff mingled together. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And whosoever lieth carnally with a woman, that is a bondmaid, betrothed to a husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her; they shall be punished; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he shall bring his trespass-offering unto Jehovah, unto the door of the tent of meeting, even a ram for a trespass-offering. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass-offering before Jehovah for his sin which he hath sinned: and the sin which he hath sinned shall be forgiven him. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit thereof as their uncircumcision: three years shall they be as uncircumcised unto you; it shall not be eaten. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holy, for giving praise unto Jehovah. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And in the fifth year shall ye eat of the fruit thereof, that it may yield unto you the increase thereof: I am Jehovah your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Ye shall not eat anything with the blood: neither shall ye use enchantments, nor practise augury. <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard. <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you: I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Profane not thy daughter, to make her a harlot; lest the land fall to whoredom, and the land become full of wickedness. <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary; I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Turn ye not unto them that have familiar spirits, nor unto the wizards; seek them not out, to be defiled by them: I am Jehovah your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and honor the face of the old man, and thou shalt fear thy God: I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not do him wrong. <a id="c19_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The stranger that sojourneth with you shall be unto you as the home-born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were sojourners in the land of Egypt: I am Jehovah your God.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in measures of length, of weight, or of quantity. <a id="c19_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall ye have: I am Jehovah your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. <a id="c19_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And ye shall observe all my statutes, and all mine ordinances, and do them: I am Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>