<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, and take of them rods, one for each fathers’ house, of all their princes according to their fathers’ houses, twelve rods: write thou every man’s name upon his rod. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt write Aaron’s name upon the rod of Levi; for there shall be one rod for each head of their fathers’ houses. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou shalt lay them up in the tent of meeting before the testimony, where I meet with you. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it shall come to pass, that the rod of the man whom I shall choose shall bud: and I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against you. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses spake unto the children of Israel; and all their princes gave him rods, for each prince one, according to their fathers’ houses, even twelve rods: and the rod of Aaron was among their rods. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Moses laid up the rods before Jehovah in the tent of the testimony.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses went into the tent of the testimony; and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and put forth buds, and produced blossoms, and bare ripe almonds. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Moses brought out all the rods from before Jehovah unto all the children of Israel: and they looked, and took every man his rod. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jehovah said unto Moses, Put back the rod of Aaron before the testimony, to be kept for a token against the children of rebellion; that thou mayest make an end of their murmurings against me, that they die not. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus did Moses: as Jehovah commanded him, so did he.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the children of Israel spake unto Moses, saying, Behold, we perish, we are undone, we are all undone. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Every one that cometh near, that cometh near unto the tabernacle of Jehovah, dieth: shall we perish all of us?</p>

</body>
</html>