<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The children of Israel shall encamp every man by his own standard, with the ensigns of their fathers’ houses: over against the tent of meeting shall they encamp round about. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And those that encamp on the east side toward the sunrising shall be they of the standard of the camp of Judah, according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Judah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Issachar: and the prince of the children of Issachar shall be Nethanel the son of Zuar. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the tribe of Zebulun: and the prince of the children of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All that were numbered of the camp of Judah were a hundred thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred, according to their hosts. They shall set forth first.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were forty and six thousand and five hundred. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Simeon: and the prince of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the tribe of Gad: and the prince of the children of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty and five thousand and six hundred and fifty. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All that were numbered of the camp of Reuben were a hundred thousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty, according to their hosts. And they shall set forth second.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then the tent of meeting shall set forward, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps: as they encamp, so shall they set forward, every man in his place, by their standards.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty thousand and five hundred. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And next unto him shall be the tribe of Manasseh: and the prince of the children of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the tribe of Benjamin: and the prince of the children of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty and five thousand and four hundred. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were a hundred thousand and eight thousand and a hundred, according to their hosts. And they shall set forth third.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan according to their hosts: and the prince of the children of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were threescore and two thousand and seven hundred. <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the prince of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ochran. <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty and one thousand and five hundred. <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the tribe of Naphtali: and the prince of the children of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan. <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred. <a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> All that were numbered of the camp of Dan were a hundred thousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred. They shall set forth hindmost by their standards.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These are they that were numbered of the children of Israel by their fathers’ houses: all that were numbered of the camps according to their hosts were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty. <a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as Jehovah commanded Moses. <a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Thus did the children of Israel; according to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so they encamped by their standards, and so they set forward, every one by their families, according to their fathers’ houses.</p>

</body>
</html>