<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Moreover let the children of Israel keep the passover in its appointed season. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the fourteenth day of this month, at even, ye shall keep it in its appointed season: according to all the statutes of it, and according to all the ordinances thereof, shall ye keep it. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, that they should keep the passover. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they kept the passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at even, in the wilderness of Sinai: according to all that Jehovah commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And there were certain men, who were unclean by reason of the dead body of a man, so that they could not keep the passover on that day: and they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day: <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and those men said unto him, We are unclean by reason of the dead body of a man: wherefore are we kept back, that we may not offer the oblation of Jehovah in its appointed season among the children of Israel? <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Moses said unto them, Stay ye, that I may hear what Jehovah will command concerning you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah spake unto Moses, saying, <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your generations shall be unclean by reason of a dead body, or be on a journey afar off, yet he shall keep the passover unto Jehovah. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In the second month on the fourteenth day at even they shall keep it; they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs: <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> they shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break a bone thereof: according to all the statute of the passover they shall keep it. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But the man that is clean, and is not on a journey, and forbeareth to keep the passover, that soul shall be cut off from his people; because he offered not the oblation of Jehovah in its appointed season, that man shall bear his sin. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep the passover unto Jehovah; according to the statute of the passover, and according to the ordinance thereof, so shall he do: ye shall have one statute, both for the sojourner, and for him that is born in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloud covered the tabernacle, even the tent of the testimony: and at even it was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until morning. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So it was alway: the cloud covered it, and the appearance of fire by night. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And whenever the cloud was taken up from over the Tent, then after that the children of Israel journeyed: and in the place where the cloud abode, there the children of Israel encamped. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> At the commandment of Jehovah the children of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of Jehovah they encamped: as long as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle they remained encamped. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle many days, then the children of Israel kept the charge of Jehovah, and journeyed not. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And sometimes the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle; then according to the commandment of Jehovah they remained encamped, and according to the commandment of Jehovah they journeyed. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And sometimes the cloud was from evening until morning; and when the cloud was taken up in the morning, they journeyed: or if it continued by day and by night, when the cloud was taken up, they journeyed. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Whether it were two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, abiding thereon, the children of Israel remained encamped, and journeyed not; but when it was taken up, they journeyed. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> At the commandment of Jehovah they encamped, and at the commandment of Jehovah they journeyed: they kept the charge of Jehovah, at the commandment of Jehovah by Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>