<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When a man taketh a wife, and marrieth her, then it shall be, if she find no favor in his eyes, because he hath found some unseemly thing in her, that he shall write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when she is departed out of his house, she may go and be another man’s wife. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And if the latter husband hate her, and write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house; or if the latter husband die, who took her to be his wife; <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abomination before Jehovah: and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When a man taketh a new wife, he shall not go out in the host, neither shall he be charged with any business: he shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer his wife whom he hath taken.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> No man shall take the mill or the upper millstone to pledge; for he taketh a man’s life to pledge.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children of Israel, and he deal with him as a slave, or sell him; then that thief shall die: so shalt thou put away the evil from the midst of thee.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that thou observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall teach you: as I commanded them, so ye shall observe to do. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember what Jehovah thy God did unto Miriam, by the way as ye came forth out of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When thou dost lend thy neighbor any manner of loan, thou shalt not go into his house to fetch his pledge. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou shalt stand without, and the man to whom thou dost lend shall bring forth the pledge without unto thee. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And if he be a poor man, thou shalt not sleep with his pledge; <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> thou shalt surely restore to him the pledge when the sun goeth down, that he may sleep in his garment, and bless thee: and it shall be righteousness unto thee before Jehovah thy God.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou shalt not oppress a hired servant that is poor and needy, whether he be of thy brethren, or of thy sojourners that are in thy land within thy gates: <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> in his day thou shalt give him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth his heart upon it: lest he cry against thee unto Jehovah, and it be sin unto thee.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: every man shall be put to death for his own sin.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou shalt not wrest the justice due to the sojourner, or to the fatherless, nor take the widow’s raiment to pledge; <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> but thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt, and Jehovah thy God redeemed thee thence: therefore I command thee to do this thing.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> When thou reapest thy harvest in thy field, and hast forgot a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it: it shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow; that Jehovah thy God may bless thee in all the work of thy hands. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When thou beatest thine olive-tree, thou shalt not go over the boughs again: it shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When thou gatherest the grapes of thy vineyard, thou shalt not glean it after thee: it shall be for the sojourner, for the fatherless, and for the widow. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt: therefore I command thee to do this thing.</p>

</body>
</html>