<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If one be found slain in the land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee to possess it, lying in the field, and it be not known who hath smitten him; <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> then thy elders and thy judges shall come forth, and they shall measure unto the cities which are round about him that is slain: <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and it shall be, that the city which is nearest unto the slain man, even the elders of that city shall take a heifer of the herd, which hath not been wrought with, and which hath not drawn in the yoke; <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and the elders of that city shall bring down the heifer unto a valley with running water, which is neither plowed nor sown, and shall break the heifer’s neck there in the valley. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the priests the sons of Levi shall come near; for them Jehovah thy God hath chosen to minister unto him, and to bless in the name of Jehovah; and according to their word shall every controversy and every stroke be. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And all the elders of that city, who are nearest unto the slain man, shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley; <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and they shall answer and say, Our hands have not shed this blood, neither have our eyes seen it. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Forgive, O Jehovah, thy people Israel, whom thou hast redeemed, and suffer not innocent blood to remain in the midst of thy people Israel. And the blood shall be forgiven them. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So shalt thou put away the innocent blood from the midst of thee, when thou shalt do that which is right in the eyes of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When thou goest forth to battle against thine enemies, and Jehovah thy God delivereth them into thy hands, and thou carriest them away captive, <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and seest among the captives a beautiful woman, and thou hast a desire unto her, and wouldest take her to thee to wife; <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> then thou shalt bring her home to thy house; and she shall shave her head, and pare her nails; <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and she shall put the raiment of her captivity from off her, and shall remain in thy house, and bewail her father and her mother a full month: and after that thou shalt go in unto her, and be her husband, and she shall be thy wife. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it shall be, if thou have no delight in her, then thou shalt let her go whither she will; but thou shalt not sell her at all for money, thou shalt not deal with her as a slave, because thou hast humbled her.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If a man have two wives, the one beloved, and the other hated, and they have borne him children, both the beloved and the hated; and if the first-born son be hers that was hated; <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> then it shall be, in the day that he causeth his sons to inherit that which he hath, that he may not make the son of the beloved the first-born before the son of the hated, who is the first-born: <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> but he shall acknowledge the first-born, the son of the hated, by giving him a double portion of all that he hath; for he is the beginning of his strength; the right of the first-born is his.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, that will not obey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, and, though they chasten him, will not hearken unto them; <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> then shall his father and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out unto the elders of his city, and unto the gate of his place; <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and they shall say unto the elders of his city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton, and a drunkard. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And all the men of his city shall stone him to death with stones: so shalt thou put away the evil from the midst of thee; and all Israel shall hear, and fear.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and he be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree; <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> his body shall not remain all night upon the tree, but thou shalt surely bury him the same day; for he that is hanged is accursed of God; that thou defile not thy land which Jehovah thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.</p>

</body>
</html>