<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass after the death of Moses the servant of Jehovah, that Jehovah spake unto Joshua the son of Nun, Moses’ minister, saying, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Moses my servant is dead; now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, thou, and all this people, unto the land which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, to you have I given it, as I spake unto Moses. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> From the wilderness, and this Lebanon, even unto the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and unto the great sea toward the going down of the sun, shall be your border. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life. as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee; I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Be strong and of good courage; for thou shalt cause this people to inherit the land which I sware unto their fathers to give them. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Only be strong and very courageous, to observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee: turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest have good success whithersoever thou goest. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate thereon day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of good courage; be not affrighted, neither be thou dismayed: for Jehovah thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Pass through the midst of the camp, and command the people, saying, Prepare you victuals; for within three days ye are to pass over this Jordan, to go in to possess the land, which Jehovah your God giveth you to possess it.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half-tribe of Manasseh, spake Joshua, saying, <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Remember the word which Moses the servant of Jehovah commanded you, saying, Jehovah your God giveth you rest, and will give you this land. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle, shall abide in the land which Moses gave you beyond the Jordan; but ye shall pass over before your brethren armed, all the mighty men of valor, and shall help them; <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> until Jehovah have given your brethren rest, as he hath given you, and they also have possessed the land which Jehovah your God giveth them: then ye shall return unto the land of your possession, and possess it, which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave you beyond the Jordan toward the sunrising. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou hast commanded us we will do, and whithersoever thou sendest us we will go. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> According as we hearkened unto Moses in all things, so will we hearken unto thee: only Jehovah thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whosoever he be that shall rebel against thy commandment, and shall not hearken unto thy words in all that thou commandest him, he shall be put to death: only be strong and of good courage.</p>

</body>
</html>