<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these are the nations which Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them, even as many of Israel as had not known all the wars of Canaan; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as beforetime knew nothing thereof: <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> namely, the five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baal-hermon unto the entrance of Hamath. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they were left, to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by Moses. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites: <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their own daughters to their sons and served their gods.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the children of Israel did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgat Jehovah their God, and served the Baalim and the Asheroth. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Cushan-rishathaim eight years. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised up a saviour to the children of Israel, who saved them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb’s younger brother. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah delivered Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand: and his hand prevailed against Cushan-rishathaim. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the children of Israel again did that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah: and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done that which was evil in the sight of Jehovah. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek; and he went and smote Israel, and they possessed the city of palm-trees. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But when the children of Israel cried unto Jehovah, Jehovah raised them up a saviour, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjamite, a man left-handed. And the children of Israel sent tribute by him unto Eglon the king of Moab. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Ehud made him a sword which had two edges, a cubit in length; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right thigh. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he offered the tribute unto Eglon king of Moab: now Eglon was a very fat man. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And when he had made an end of offering the tribute, he sent away the people that bare the tribute. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But he himself turned back from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king. And he said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting by himself alone in the cool upper room. And Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee. And he arose out of his seat. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his body: <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, for he drew not the sword out of his body; and it came out behind. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then Ehud went forth into the porch, and shut the doors of the upper room upon him, and locked them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Now when he was gone out, his servants came; and they saw, and, behold, the doors of the upper room were locked; and they said, Surely he is covering his feet in the upper chamber. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they tarried till they were ashamed; and, behold, he opened not the doors of the upper room: therefore they took the key, and opened them, and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Ehud escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond the quarries, and escaped unto Seirah. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim; and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said unto them, Follow after me; for Jehovah hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and suffered not a man to pass over. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they smote of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, every lusty man, and every man of valor; and there escaped not a man. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, who smote of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox-goad: and he also saved Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>