<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the child Samuel ministered unto Jehovah before Eli. And the word of Jehovah was precious in those days; there was no frequent vision. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place (now his eyes had begun to wax dim, so that he could not see), <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and the lamp of God was not yet gone out, and Samuel was laid down to sleep, in the temple of Jehovah, where the ark of God was; <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> that Jehovah called Samuel; and he said, Here am I. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now Samuel did not yet know Jehovah, neither was the word of Jehovah yet revealed unto him. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And Eli perceived that Jehovah had called the child. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, Jehovah; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jehovah came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel said, Speak; for thy servant heareth. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jehovah said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> In that day I will perform against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from the beginning even unto the end. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever, for the iniquity which he knew, because his sons did bring a curse upon themselves, and he restrained them not. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli’s house shall not be expiated with sacrifice nor offering for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of Jehovah. And Samuel feared to show Eli the vision. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he said, Here am I. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said, What is the thing that Jehovah hath spoken unto thee? I pray thee, hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide anything from me of all the things that he spake unto thee. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is Jehovah: let him do what seemeth him good.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Samuel grew, and Jehovah was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And all Israel from Dan even to Beer-sheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of Jehovah. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Jehovah appeared again in Shiloh; for Jehovah revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>