<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these are the last words of David. David the son of Jesse saith, And the man who was raised on high saith, The anointed of the God of Jacob, And the sweet psalmist of Israel: <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The Spirit of Jehovah spake by me, And his word was upon my tongue. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The God of Israel said, The Rock of Israel spake to me: One that ruleth over men righteously, That ruleth in the fear of God, <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall be as the light of the morning, when the sun riseth, A morning without clouds, When the tender grass springeth out of the earth, Through clear shining after rain. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Verily my house is not so with God; Yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant, Ordered in all things, and sure: For it is all my salvation, and all my desire, Although he maketh it not to grow. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But the ungodly shall be all of them as thorns to be thrust away, Because they cannot be taken with the hand; <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the man that toucheth them Must be armed with iron and the staff of a spear: And they shall be utterly burned with fire in their place.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> These are the names of the mighty men whom David had: Josheb-basshebeth a Tahchemonite, chief of the captains; the same was Adino the Eznite, against eight hundred slain at one time.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodai the son of an Ahohite, one of the three mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines that were there gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel were gone away. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He arose, and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword; and Jehovah wrought a great victory that day; and the people returned after him only to take spoil.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And after him was Shammah the son of Agee a Hararite. And the Philistines were gathered together into a troop, where was a plot of ground full of lentils; and the people fled from the Philistines. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But he stood in the midst of the plot, and defended it, and slew the Philistines; and Jehovah wrought a great victory.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And three of the thirty chief men went down, and came to David in the harvest time unto the cave of Adullam; and the troop of the Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And David was then in the stronghold; and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Beth-lehem. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me water to drink of the well of Beth-lehem, which is by the gate! <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the three mighty men brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Beth-lehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David: but he would not drink thereof, but poured it out unto Jehovah. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said, Be it far from me, O Jehovah, that I should do this: shall I drink the blood of the men that went in jeopardy of their lives? therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of the three. And he lifted up his spear against three hundred and slew them, and had a name among the three. <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Was he not most honorable of the three? therefore he was made their captain: howbeit he attained not unto the first three.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done mighty deeds, he slew the two sons of Ariel of Moab: he went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he slew an Egyptian, a goodly man: and the Egyptian had a spear in his hand; but he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand, and slew him with his own spear. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had a name among the three mighty men. <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He was more honorable than the thirty, but he attained not to the first three. And David set him over his guard.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Beth-lehem, <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite, <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Abiezer the Anathothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite, <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite, <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Heleb the son of Baanah the Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin, <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Benaiah a Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite, <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan, <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Ararite, <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maacathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite, <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Hezro the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite, <a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite, <a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, armorbearers to Joab the son of Zeruiah, <a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite, <a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Uriah the Hittite: thirty and seven in all.</p>

</body>
</html>