<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them: and David took the bridle of the mother city out of the hand of the Philistines.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he smote Moab, and measured them with the line, making them to lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death, and one full line to keep alive. And the Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> David smote also Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his dominion at the River. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And David took from him a thousand and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David hocked all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadadezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much brass. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer, <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> then Toi sent Joram his son unto king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and smitten him: for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. And Joram brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass: <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> These also did king David dedicate unto Jehovah, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued; <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And David gat him a name when he returned from smiting the Syrians in the Valley of Salt, even eighteen thousand men. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed justice and righteousness unto all his people. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Seraiah was scribe; <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David’s sons were chief ministers.</p>

</body>
</html>