<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when David was a little past the top of the ascent, behold, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him, with a couple of asses saddled, and upon them two hundred loaves of bread, and a hundred clusters of raisins, and a hundred of summer fruits, and a bottle of wine. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the king said unto Ziba, What meanest thou by these? And Ziba said, The asses are for the king’s household to ride on; and the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat; and the wine, that such as are faint in the wilderness may drink. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the king said, And where is thy master’s son? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he abideth at Jerusalem; for he said, To-day will the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then said the king to Ziba, Behold, thine is all that pertaineth unto Mephibosheth. And Ziba said, I do obeisance; let me find favor in thy sight, my lord, O king.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when king David came to Bahurim, behold, there came out thence a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera; he came out, and cursed still as he came. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he cast stones at David, and at all the servants of king David: and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thus said Shimei when he cursed, Begone, begone, thou man of blood, and base fellow: <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned; and Jehovah hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom thy son; and, behold, thou art taken in thine own mischief, because thou art a man of blood.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then said Abishai the son of Zeruiah unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zeruiah? Because he curseth, and because Jehovah hath said unto him, Curse David; who then shall say, Wherefore hast thou done so? <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, who came forth from my bowels, seeketh my life: how much more <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It may be that Jehovah will look on the wrong done unto me, and that Jehovah will requite me good for his cursing of me this day. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So David and his men went by the way; and Shimei went along on the hill-side over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the king, and all the people that were with him, came weary; and he refreshed himself there.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Absalom, and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it came to pass, when Hushai the Archite, David’s friend, was come unto Absalom, that Hushai said unto Absalom, Long live the king, Long live the king. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? why wentest thou not with thy friend? <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Hushai said unto Absalom, Nay; but whom Jehovah, and this people, and all the men of Israel have chosen, his will I be, and with him will I abide. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And again, whom should I serve? should I not serve in the presence of his son? as I have served in thy father’s presence, so will I be in thy presence.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then said Absalom to Ahithophel, Give your counsel what we shall do. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Go in unto thy father’s concubines, that he hath left to keep the house; and all Israel will hear that thou art abhorred of thy father: then will the hands of all that are with thee be strong. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So they spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house; and Absalom went in unto his father’s concubines in the sight of all Israel. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he gave in those days, was as if a man inquired at the oracle of God: so was all the counsel of Ahithophel both with David and with Absalom.</p>

</body>
</html>