<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Satan stood up against Israel, and moved David to number Israel. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And David said to Joab and to the princes of the people, Go, number Israel from Beer-sheba even to Dan; and bring me word, that I may know the sum of them. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Joab said, Jehovah make his people a hundred times as many as they are: but, my lord the king, are they not all my lord’s servants? why doth my lord require this thing? why will he be a cause of guilt unto Israel? <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Nevertheless the king’s word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed, and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Joab gave up the sum of the numbering of the people unto David. And all they of Israel were a thousand thousand and a hundred thousand men that drew sword: and Judah was four hundred threescore and ten thousand men that drew sword. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them; for the king’s word was abominable to Joab. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smote Israel. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, in that I have done this thing: but now, put away, I beseech thee, the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah spake unto Gad, David’s seer, saying, <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Go and speak unto David, saying, Thus saith Jehovah, I offer thee three things: choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith Jehovah, Take which thou wilt: <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> either three years of famine; or three months to be consumed before thy foes, while the sword of thine enemies overtaketh thee; or else three days the sword of Jehovah, even pestilence in the land, and the angel of Jehovah destroying throughout all the borders of Israel. Now therefore consider what answer I shall return to him that sent me. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall, I pray, into the hand of Jehovah; for very great are his mercies: and let me not fall into the hand of man. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So Jehovah sent a pestilence upon Israel; and there fell of Israel seventy thousand men. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as he was about to destroy, Jehovah beheld, and he repented him of the evil, and said to the destroying angel, It is enough; now stay thy hand. And the angel of Jehovah was standing by the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of Jehovah standing between earth and heaven, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the people to be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and done very wickedly; but these sheep, what have they done? let thy hand, I pray thee, O Jehovah my God, be against me, and against my father’s house; but not against thy people, that they should be plagued.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then the angel of Jehovah commanded Gad to say to David, that David should go up, and rear an altar unto Jehovah in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite. <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of Jehovah. <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons that were with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out of the threshing-floor, and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground. <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then David said to Ornan, Give me the place of this threshing-floor, that I may build thereon an altar unto Jehovah: for the full price shalt thou give it me, that the plague may be stayed from the people. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes: lo, I give thee the oxen for burnt-offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meal-offering; I give it all. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it for the full price: for I will not take that which is thine for Jehovah, nor offer a burnt-offering without cost. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight. <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And David built there an altar unto Jehovah, and offered burnt-offerings and peace-offerings, and called upon Jehovah; and he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt-offering. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Jehovah commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again into the sheath thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> At that time, when David saw that Jehovah had answered him in the threshing-floor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there. <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For the tabernacle of Jehovah, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt-offering, were at that time in the high place at Gibeon. <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But David could not go before it to inquire of God; for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>