<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them, and took Gath and its towns out of the hand of the Philistines. <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he went to establish his dominion by the river Euphrates. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen; and David hocked all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for a hundred chariots.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succor Hadarezer king of Zobah, David smote of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And from Tibhath and from Cun, cities of Hadarezer, David took very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brazen sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when Tou king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah, <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> he sent Hadoram his son to king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadarezer and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had wars with Tou;) and he had with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> These also did king David dedicate unto Jehovah, with the silver and the gold that he carried away from all the nations; from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah smote of the Edomites in the Valley of Salt eighteen thousand. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became servants to David. And Jehovah gave victory to David whithersoever he went.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And David reigned over all Israel; and he executed justice and righteousness unto all his people. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder; <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were priests; and Shavsha was scribe; <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief about the king.</p>

</body>
</html>