<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Adam, Seth, Enosh, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared, <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Diphath, and Togarmah. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the sons of Javan: Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raama, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba, and Dedan. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Cush begat Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one in the earth. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim, <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Pathrusim, and Casluhim (from whence came the Philistines), and Caphtorim. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Canaan begat Sidon his first-born, and Heth, <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite, <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite, <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arpachshad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Arpachshad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg; for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother’s name was Joktan. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah, <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba, <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah, <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Eber, Peleg, Reu, <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Serug, Nahor, Terah, <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Abram (the same is Abraham).</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The sons of Abraham: Isaac, and Ishmael. <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> These are their generations: the first-born of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema, <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the sons of Keturah, Abraham’s concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba, and Dedan. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Abraham begat Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau, and Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jalam, and Korah. <a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek. <a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the sons of Seir: Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan. <a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the sons of Lotan: Hori, and Homam; and Timna was Lotan’s sister. <a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon: Aiah, and Anah. <a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The sons of Anah: Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Hamran, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran. <a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, Jaakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz, and Aran.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before there reigned any king over the children of Israel: Bela the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah. <a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead. <a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead. <a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Avith. <a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead. <a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth by the River reigned in his stead. <a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead. <a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Baal-hanan died, and Hadad reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Pai: and his wife’s name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Me-zahab. <a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And Hadad died.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> chief Oholibamah, chief Elah, chief Pinon, <a id="c1_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> chief Kenaz, chief Teman, chief Mibzar, <a id="c1_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> chief Magdiel, chief Iram. These are the chiefs of Edom.</p>

</body>
</html>