<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And David made him houses in the city of David; and he prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites: for them hath Jehovah chosen to carry the ark of God, and to minister unto him for ever. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And David assembled all Israel at Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of Jehovah unto its place, which he had prepared for it. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And David gathered together the sons of Aaron, and the Levites: <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, and his brethren a hundred and twenty; <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred and twenty; <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, and his brethren a hundred and thirty; <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred; <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore; <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, and his brethren a hundred and twelve. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and Amminadab, <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and said unto them, Ye are the heads of the fathers’ houses of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that ye may bring up the ark of Jehovah, the God of Israel, unto the place that I have prepared for it. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For because ye bare it not at the first, Jehovah our God made a breach upon us, for that we sought him not according to the ordinance. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of Jehovah, the God of Israel. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon their shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the word of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brethren the singers, with instruments of music, psalteries and harps and cymbals, sounding aloud and lifting up the voice with joy. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah; <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and with them their brethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, the doorkeepers. <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed with cymbals of brass to sound aloud; <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with psalteries set to Alamoth; <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obed-edom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with harps set to the Sheminith, to lead. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was over the song: he instructed about the song, because he was skilful. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow the trumpets before the ark of God: and Obed-edom and Jehiah were doorkeepers for the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah out of the house of Obed-edom with joy. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare the ark of the covenant of Jehovah, that they sacrificed seven bullocks and seven rams. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master of the song with the singers: and David had upon him an ephod of linen. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of Jehovah with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, sounding aloud with psalteries and harps.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of Jehovah came to the city of David, that Michal the daughter of Saul looked out at the window, and saw king David dancing and playing; and she despised him in her heart.</p>

</body>
</html>