<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Philistines followed hard after Saul and after his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers overtook him; and he was distressed by reason of the archers. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then said Saul unto his armor-bearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But his armor-bearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took his sword, and fell upon it. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he likewise fell upon his sword, and died. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So Saul died, and his three sons; and all his house died together.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when all the men of Israel that were in the valley saw that they fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook their cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his sons fallen in mount Gilboa. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they stripped him, and took his head, and his armor, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry the tidings unto their idols, and to the people. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they put his armor in the house of their gods, and fastened his head in the house of Dagon. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when all Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul, <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> all the valiant men arose, and took away the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh, and buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So Saul died for his trespass which he committed against Jehovah, because of the word of Jehovah, which he kept not; and also for that he asked counsel of one that had a familiar spirit, to inquire thereby, <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and inquired not of Jehovah: therefore he slew him, and turned the kingdom unto David the son of Jesse.</p>

</body>
</html>