<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar-trees, and masons, and carpenters, to build him a house. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And David perceived that Jehovah had established him king over Israel; for his kingdom was exalted on high, for his people Israel’s sake.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And David took more wives at Jerusalem; and David begat more sons and daughters. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And these are the names of the children whom he had in Jerusalem: Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet, <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia, <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David: and David heard of it, and went out against them. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now the Philistines had come and made a raid in the valley of Rephaim. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And David inquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? and wilt thou deliver them into my hand? And Jehovah said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thy hand. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So they came up to Baal-perazim, and David smote them there; and David said, God hath broken mine enemies by my hand, like the breach of waters. Therefore they called the name of that place Baal-perazim. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they left their gods there; and David gave commandment, and they were burned with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the Philistines yet again made a raid in the valley. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And David inquired again of God; and God said unto him, Thou shalt not go up after them: turn away from them, and come upon them over against the mulberry-trees. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it shall be, when thou hearest the sound of marching in the tops of the mulberry-trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle; for God is gone out before thee to smite the host of the Philistines. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And David did as God commanded him: and they smote the host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gezer. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the fame of David went out into all lands; and Jehovah brought the fear of him upon all nations.</p>

</body>
</html>