<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nehemiah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nehemiah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass, when it was reported to Sanballat and Tobiah, and to Geshem the Arabian, and unto the rest of our enemies, that I had builded the wall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though even unto that time I had not set up the doors in the gates;) <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that Sanballat and Geshem sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in one of the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I sent messengers unto them, saying, I am doing a great work, so that I cannot come down: why should the work cease, whilst I leave it, and come down to you? <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they sent unto me four times after this sort; and I answered them after the same manner. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then sent Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth time with an open letter in his hand, <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> wherein was written, It is reported among the nations, and Gashmu saith it, that thou and the Jews think to rebel; for which cause thou art building the wall: and thou wouldest be their king, according to these words. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou hast also appointed prophets to preach of thee at Jerusalem, saying, There is a king in Judah: and now shall it be reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore, and let us take counsel together. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done as thou sayest, but thou feignest them out of thine own heart. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For they all would have made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened from the work, that it be not done. But now, O God, strengthen thou my hands. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I went unto the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabel, who was shut up; and he said, Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple: for they will come to slay thee; yea, in the night will they come to slay thee. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I said, Should such a man as I flee? and who is there, that, being such as I, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I discerned, and, lo, God had not sent him; but he pronounced this prophecy against me: and Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For this cause was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, and sin, and that they might have matter for an evil report, that they might reproach me. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Remember, O my God, Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and also the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the prophets, that would have put me in fear. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth day of the month Elul, in fifty and two days. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it came to pass, when all our enemies heard thereof, that all the nations that were about us feared, and were much cast down in their own eyes; for they perceived that this work was wrought of our God. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto Tobiah, and the letters of Tobiah came unto them. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For there were many in Judah sworn unto him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Arah; and his son Jehohanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah to wife. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also they spake of his good deeds before me, and reported my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.</p>

</body>
</html>