<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nehemiah 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nehemiah 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed, <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the governor of the castle, charge over Jerusalem; for he was a faithful man, and feared God above many. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot; and while they stand on guard, let them shut the doors, and bar ye them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one to be over against his house. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now the city was wide and large; but the people were few therein, and the houses were not builded. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And my God put into my heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found the book of the genealogy of them that came up at the first, and I found written therein: <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> These are the children of the province, that went up out of the captivity of those that had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away, and that returned unto Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto his city; <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel: <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The children of Parosh, two thousand a hundred and seventy and two. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The children of Pahath-moab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty and five. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and eight. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty and two. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The children of Adonikam, six hundred threescore and seven. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and seven. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The children of Ater, of Hezekiah, ninety and eight. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty and eight. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and four. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The children of Hariph, a hundred and twelve. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The children of Gibeon, ninety and five. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, a hundred fourscore and eight. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The men of Anathoth, a hundred twenty and eight. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The men of Beth-azmaveth, forty and two. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty and three. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The men of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty and one. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The men of Michmas, a hundred and twenty and two. <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The men of Beth-el and Ai, a hundred twenty and three. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and one. <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty. <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> The priests: The children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three. <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two. <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The children of Pashhur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven. <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen. <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, of the children of Hodevah, seventy and four. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> The singers: the children of Asaph, a hundred forty and eight. <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, a hundred thirty and eight. <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The Nethinim: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth, <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> the children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon, <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> the children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Salmai, <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> the children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> the children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, <a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> the children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Paseah. <a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephushesim, <a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> the children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, <a id="c7_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> the children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, <a id="c7_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> the children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Temah, <a id="c7_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> the children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha. <a id="c7_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> The children of Solomon’s servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida, <a id="c7_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> the children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, <a id="c7_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> the children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the children of Amon. <a id="c7_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> All the Nethinim, and the children of Solomon’s servants, were three hundred ninety and two. <a id="c7_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And these were they that went up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer; but they could not show their fathers’ houses, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel: <a id="c7_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred forty and two. <a id="c7_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> And of the priests: the children of Hobaiah, the children of Hakkoz, the children of Barzillai, who took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name. <a id="c7_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> These sought their register among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they deemed polluted and put from the priesthood. <a id="c7_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> And the governor said unto them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim. <a id="c7_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> The whole assembly together was forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore, <a id="c7_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> besides their men-servants and their maid-servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and they had two hundred forty and five singing men and singing women. <a id="c7_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> Their horses were seven hundred thirty and six; their mules, two hundred forty and five; <a id="c7_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> their camels, four hundred thirty and five; their asses, six thousand seven hundred and twenty. <a id="c7_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> And some from among the heads of fathers’ houses gave unto the work. The governor gave to the treasury a thousand darics of gold, fifty basins, five hundred and thirty priests’ garments. <a id="c7_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> And some of the heads of fathers’ houses gave into the treasury of the work twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pounds of silver. <a id="c7_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand darics of gold, and two thousand pounds of silver, and threescore and seven priests’ garments. <a id="c7_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinim, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities. And when the seventh month was come, the children of Israel were in their cities.</p>

</body>
</html>