<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Man, that is born of a woman, Is of few days, and full of trouble. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: He fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And dost thou open thine eyes upon such a one, And bringest me into judgment with thee? <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Seeing his days are determined, The number of his months is with thee, And thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass; <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Look away from him, that he may rest, Till he shall accomplish, as a hireling, his day.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For there is hope of a tree, If it be cut down, that it will sprout again, And that the tender branch thereof will not cease. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, And the stock thereof die in the ground; <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yet through the scent of water it will bud, And put forth boughs like a plant. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But man dieth, and is laid low: Yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he? <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As the waters fail from the sea, And the river wasteth and drieth up; <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So man lieth down and riseth not: Till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, Nor be roused out of their sleep.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Oh that thou wouldest hide me in Sheol, That thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, That thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me! <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If a man die, shall he live again? All the days of my warfare would I wait, Till my release should come. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou wouldest call, and I would answer thee: Thou wouldest have a desire to the work of thy hands. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now thou numberest my steps: Dost thou not watch over my sin? <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My transgression is sealed up in a bag, And thou fastenest up mine iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the mountain falling cometh to nought; And the rock is removed out of its place; <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The waters wear the stones; The overflowings thereof wash away the dust of the earth: So thou destroyest the hope of man. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth; Thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His sons come to honor, and he knoweth it not; And they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But his flesh upon him hath pain, And his soul within him mourneth.</p>

</body>
</html>