<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long will ye vex my soul, And break me in pieces with words? <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> These ten times have ye reproached me: Ye are not ashamed that ye deal hardly with me. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And be it indeed that I have erred, Mine error remaineth with myself. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If indeed ye will magnify yourselves against me, And plead against me my reproach; <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Know now that God hath subverted me in my cause, And hath compassed me with his net.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry for help, but there is no justice. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath walled up my way that I cannot pass, And hath set darkness in my paths. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He hath stripped me of my glory, And taken the crown from my head. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He hath broken me down on every side, and I am gone; And my hope hath he plucked up like a tree. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He hath also kindled his wrath against me, And he counteth me unto him as one of his adversaries. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His troops come on together, And cast up their way against me, And encamp round about my tent. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He hath put my brethren far from me, And mine acquaintance are wholly estranged from me. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My kinsfolk have failed, And my familiar friends have forgotten me. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They that dwell in my house, and my maids, count me for a stranger; I am an alien in their sight. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I call unto my servant, and he giveth me no answer, Though I entreat him with my mouth. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My breath is strange to my wife, And my supplication to the children of mine own mother. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Even young children despise me; If I arise, they speak against me. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All my familiar friends abhor me, And they whom I loved are turned against me. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, And I am escaped with the skin of my teeth. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; For the hand of God hath touched me. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Why do ye persecute me as God, And are not satisfied with my flesh?</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Oh that my words were now written! Oh that they were inscribed in a book! <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> That with an iron pen and lead They were graven in the rock for ever! <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But as for me I know that my Redeemer liveth, And at last he will stand up upon the earth: <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And after my skin, even this body, is destroyed, Then without my flesh shall I see God; <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whom I, even I, shall see, on my side, And mine eyes shall behold, and not as a stranger. My heart is consumed within me. <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> If ye say, How we will persecute him! And that the root of the matter is found in me; <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Be ye afraid of the sword: For wrath bringeth the punishments of the sword, That ye may know there is a judgment.</p>

</body>
</html>