<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Jehovah answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said, <a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who is this that darkeneth counsel By words without knowledge? <a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Gird up now thy loins like a man; For I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me. <a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare, if thou hast understanding. <a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who determined the measures thereof, if thou knowest? Or who stretched the line upon it? <a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whereupon were the foundations thereof fastened? Or who laid the corner-stone thereof, <a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the morning stars sang together, And all the sons of God shouted for joy?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Or who shut up the sea with doors, When it brake forth, as if it had issued out of the womb; <a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When I made clouds the garment thereof, And thick darkness a swaddling-band for it, <a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And marked out for it my bound, And set bars and doors, <a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And said, Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further; And here shall thy proud waves be stayed?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days began, And caused the dayspring to know its place; <a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, And the wicked be shaken out of it? <a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> It is changed as clay under the seal; And all things stand forth as a garment: <a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And from the wicked their light is withholden, And the high arm is broken.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? Or hast thou walked in the recesses of the deep? <a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Have the gates of death been revealed unto thee? Or hast thou seen the gates of the shadow of death? <a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Hast thou comprehended the earth in its breadth? Declare, if thou knowest it all.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Where is the way to the dwelling of light? And as for darkness, where is the place thereof, <a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> That thou shouldest take it to the bound thereof, And that thou shouldest discern the paths to the house thereof? <a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Doubtless, thou knowest, for thou wast then born, And the number of thy days is great! <a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hast thou entered the treasuries of the snow, Or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail, <a id="c38_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, Against the day of battle and war? <a id="c38_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> By what way is the light parted, Or the east wind scattered upon the earth? <a id="c38_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who hath cleft a channel for the waterflood, Or the way for the lightning of the thunder; <a id="c38_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> To cause it to rain on a land where no man is; On the wilderness, wherein there is no man; <a id="c38_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> To satisfy the waste and desolate ground, And to cause the tender grass to spring forth? <a id="c38_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Hath the rain a father? Or who hath begotten the drops of dew? <a id="c38_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Out of whose womb came the ice? And the hoary frost of heaven, who hath gendered it? <a id="c38_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The waters hide themselves and become like stone, And the face of the deep is frozen.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Canst thou bind the cluster of the Pleiades, Or loose the bands of Orion? <a id="c38_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Canst thou lead forth the Mazzaroth in their season? Or canst thou guide the Bear with her train? <a id="c38_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Knowest thou the ordinances of the heavens? Canst thou establish the dominion thereof in the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, That abundance of waters may cover thee? <a id="c38_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Canst thou send forth lightnings, that they may go, And say unto thee, Here we are? <a id="c38_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts? Or who hath given understanding to the mind? <a id="c38_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can pour out the bottles of heaven, <a id="c38_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> When the dust runneth into a mass, And the clods cleave fast together?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Canst thou hunt the prey for the lioness, Or satisfy the appetite of the young lions, <a id="c38_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> When they couch in their dens, And abide in the covert to lie in wait? <a id="c38_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Who provideth for the raven his prey, When his young ones cry unto God, And wander for lack of food?</p>

</body>
</html>