<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yea, at this my heart trembleth, And is moved out of its place. <a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, oh, hear the noise of his voice, And the sound that goeth out of his mouth. <a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He sendeth it forth under the whole heaven, And his lightening unto the ends of the earth. <a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> After it a voice roareth; He thundereth with the voice of his majesty; And he restraineth not the lightnings when his voice is heard. <a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God thundereth marvellously with his voice; Great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend. <a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For he saith to the snow, Fall thou on the earth; Likewise to the shower of rain, And to the showers of his mighty rain. <a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He sealeth up the hand of every man, That all men whom he hath made may know it. <a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then the beasts go into coverts, And remain in their dens. <a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Out of the chamber of the south cometh the storm, And cold out of the north. <a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> By the breath of God ice is given; And the breadth of the waters is straitened. <a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yea, he ladeth the thick cloud with moisture; He spreadeth abroad the cloud of his lightning: <a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it is turned round about by his guidance, That they may do whatsoever he commandeth them Upon the face of the habitable world, <a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whether it be for correction, or for his land, Or for lovingkindness, that he cause it to come.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Hearken unto this, O Job: Stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God. <a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Dost thou know how God layeth his charge upon them, And causeth the lightning of his cloud to shine? <a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds, The wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge? <a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How thy garments are warm, When the earth is still by reason of the south wind? <a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Canst thou with him spread out the sky, Which is strong as a molten mirror? <a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Teach us what we shall say unto him; For we cannot set our speech in order by reason of darkness. <a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Shall it be told him that I would speak? Or should a man wish that he were swallowed up? <a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And now men see not the light which is bright in the skies; But the wind passeth, and cleareth them. <a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Out of the north cometh golden splendor: God hath upon him terrible majesty. <a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out He is excellent in power; And in justice and plenteous righteousness he will not afflict. <a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Men do therefore fear him: He regardeth not any that are wise of heart.</p>

</body>
</html>