<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said, <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Should a wise man make answer with vain knowledge, And fill himself with the east wind? <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Should he reason with unprofitable talk, Or with speeches wherewith he can do no good? <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yea, thou doest away with fear, And hinderest devotion before God. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thine iniquity teacheth thy mouth, And thou choosest the tongue of the crafty. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I; Yea, thine own lips testify against thee.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Art thou the first man that was born? Or wast thou brought forth before the hills? <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hast thou heard the secret counsel of God? And dost thou limit wisdom to thyself? <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What knowest thou, that we know not? What understandest thou, which is not in us? <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With us are both the gray-headed and the very aged men, Much elder than thy father. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Are the consolations of God too small for thee, Even the word that is gentle toward thee? <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why doth thy heart carry thee away? And why do thine eyes flash, <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That against God thou turnest thy spirit, And lettest words go out of thy mouth? <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What is man, that he should be clean? And he that is born of a woman, that he should be righteous? <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, he putteth no trust in his holy ones; Yea, the heavens are not clean in his sight: <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> How much less one that is abominable and corrupt, A man that drinketh iniquity like water!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will show thee, hear thou me; And that which I have seen I will declare: <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (Which wise men have told From their fathers, and have not hid it; <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Unto whom alone the land was given, And no stranger passed among them): <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days, Even the number of years that are laid up for the oppressor. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A sound of terrors is in his ears; In prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, And he is waited for of the sword. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? He knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Distress and anguish make him afraid; They prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Because he hath stretched out his hand against God, And behaveth himself proudly against the Almighty; <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He runneth upon him with a stiff neck, With the thick bosses of his bucklers; <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Because he hath covered his face with his fatness, And gathered fat upon his loins; <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he hath dwelt in desolate cities, In houses which no man inhabited, Which were ready to become heaps; <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue, Neither shall their possessions be extended on the earth. <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He shall not depart out of darkness; The flame shall dry up his branches, And by the breath of God’s mouth shall he go away. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let him not trust in vanity, deceiving himself; For vanity shall be his recompense. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It shall be accomplished before his time, And his branch shall not be green. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, And shall cast off his flower as the olive-tree. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For the company of the godless shall be barren, And fire shall consume the tents of bribery. <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> They conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity, And their heart prepareth deceit.</p>

</body>
</html>