<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job again took up his parable, and said, <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Oh that I were as in the months of old, As in the days when God watched over me; <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When his lamp shined upon my head, And by his light I walked through darkness; <a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As I was in the ripeness of my days, When the friendship of God was upon my tent; <a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When the Almighty was yet with me, And my children were about me; <a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When my steps were washed with butter, And the rock poured me out streams of oil! <a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When I went forth to the gate unto the city, When I prepared my seat in the street, <a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The young men saw me and hid themselves, And the aged rose up and stood; <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The princes refrained from talking, And laid their hand on their mouth; <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The voice of the nobles was hushed, And their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth. <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For when the ear heard me, then it blessed me; And when the eye saw me, it gave witness unto me: <a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because I delivered the poor that cried, The fatherless also, that had none to help him. <a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me; And I caused the widow’s heart to sing for joy. <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: My justice was as a robe and a diadem. <a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I was eyes to the blind, And feet was I to the lame. <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I was a father to the needy: And the cause of him that I knew not I searched out. <a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I brake the jaws of the unrighteous, And plucked the prey out of his teeth. <a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then I said, I shall die in my nest, And I shall multiply my days as the sand: <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My root is spread out to the waters, And the dew lieth all night upon my branch; <a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My glory is fresh in me, And my bow is renewed in my hand. <a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Unto me men gave ear, and waited, And kept silence for my counsel. <a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> After my words they spake not again; And my speech distilled upon them. <a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they waited for me as for the rain; And they opened their mouth wide as for the latter rain. <a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I smiled on them, when they had no confidence; And the light of my countenance they cast not down. <a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I chose out their way, and sat as chief, And dwelt as a king in the army, As one that comforteth the mourners.</p>

</body>
</html>