<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore do my thoughts give answer to me, Even by reason of my haste that is in me. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have heard the reproof which putteth me to shame; And the spirit of my understanding answereth me. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Knowest thou not this of old time, Since man was placed upon earth, <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That the triumphing of the wicked is short, And the joy of the godless but for a moment? <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Though his height mount up to the heavens, And his head reach unto the clouds; <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yet he shall perish for ever like his own dung: They that have seen him shall say, Where is he? <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found: Yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The eye which saw him shall see him no more; Neither shall his place any more behold him. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His children shall seek the favor of the poor, And his hands shall give back his wealth. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His bones are full of his youth, But it shall lie down with him in the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, Though he hide it under his tongue, <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Though he spare it, and will not let it go, But keep it still within his mouth; <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet his food in his bowels is turned, It is the gall of asps within him. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again; God will cast them out of his belly. <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He shall suck the poison of asps: The viper’s tongue shall slay him. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He shall not look upon the rivers, The flowing streams of honey and butter. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> That which he labored for shall he restore, and shall not swallow it down; According to the substance that he hath gotten, he shall not rejoice. <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For he hath oppressed and forsaken the poor; He hath violently taken away a house, and he shall not build it up.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Because he knew no quietness within him, He shall not save aught of that wherein he delighteth. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There was nothing left that he devoured not; Therefore his prosperity shall not endure. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits: The hand of every one that is in misery shall come upon him. <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> When he is about to fill his belly, God will cast the fierceness of his wrath upon him, And will rain it upon him while he is eating. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He shall flee from the iron weapon, And the bow of brass shall strike him through. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He draweth it forth, and it cometh out of his body; Yea, the glittering point cometh out of his gall: Terrors are upon him. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All darkness is laid up for his treasures: A fire not blown by man shall devour him; It shall consume that which is left in his tent. <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The heavens shall reveal his iniquity, And the earth shall rise up against him. <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The increase of his house shall depart; His goods shall flow away in the day of his wrath. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> This is the portion of a wicked man from God, And the heritage appointed unto him by God.</p>

</body>
</html>