<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Knowest thou the time when the wild goats of the rock bring forth? Or canst thou mark when the hinds do calve? <a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Canst thou number the months that they fulfil? Or knowest thou the time when they bring forth? <a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They bow themselves, they bring forth their young, They cast out their pains. <a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their young ones become strong, they grow up in the open field; They go forth, and return not again.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who hath sent out the wild ass free? Or who hath loosed the bonds of the swift ass, <a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whose home I have made the wilderness, And the salt land his dwelling-place? <a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He scorneth the tumult of the city, Neither heareth he the shoutings of the driver. <a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The range of the mountains is his pasture, And he searcheth after every green thing. <a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will the wild-ox be content to serve thee? Or will he abide by thy crib? <a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Canst thou bind the wild-ox with his band in the furrow? Or will he harrow the valleys after thee? <a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wilt thou trust him, because his strength is great? Or wilt thou leave to him thy labor? <a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wilt thou confide in him, that he will bring home thy seed, And gather the grain of thy threshing-floor?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The wings of the ostrich wave proudly; But are they the pinions and plumage of love? <a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For she leaveth her eggs on the earth, And warmeth them in the dust, <a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And forgetteth that the foot may crush them, Or that the wild beast may trample them. <a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> She dealeth hardly with her young ones, as if they were not hers: Though her labor be in vain, she is without fear; <a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because God hath deprived her of wisdom, Neither hath he imparted to her understanding. <a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What time she lifteth up herself on high, She scorneth the horse and his rider.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hast thou given the horse his might? Hast thou clothed his neck with the quivering mane? <a id="c39_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Hast thou made him to leap as a locust? The glory of his snorting is terrible. <a id="c39_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength: He goeth out to meet the armed men. <a id="c39_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He mocketh at fear, and is not dismayed; Neither turneth he back from the sword. <a id="c39_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The quiver rattleth against him, The flashing spear and the javelin. <a id="c39_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage; Neither believeth he that it is the voice of the trumpet. <a id="c39_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As oft as the trumpet soundeth he saith, Aha! And he smelleth the battle afar off, The thunder of the captains, and the shouting.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Is it by thy wisdom that the hawk soareth, (And) stretcheth her wings toward the south? <a id="c39_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Is it at thy command that the eagle mounteth up, And maketh her nest on high? <a id="c39_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> On the cliff she dwelleth, and maketh her home, Upon the point of the cliff, and the stronghold. <a id="c39_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> From thence she spieth out the prey; Her eyes behold it afar off. <a id="c39_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Her young ones also suck up blood: And where the slain are, there is she.</p>

</body>
</html>