<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Even to-day is my complaint rebellious: My stroke is heavier than my groaning. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Oh that I knew where I might find him! That I might come even to his seat! <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I would set my cause in order before him, And fill my mouth with arguments. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I would know the words which he would answer me, And understand what he would say unto me. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Would he contend with me in the greatness of his power? Nay; but he would give heed unto me. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There the upright might reason with him; So should I be delivered for ever from my judge. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, I go forward, but he is not there; And backward, but I cannot perceive him; <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> On the left hand, when he doth work, but I cannot behold him; He hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot see him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But he knoweth the way that I take; When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My foot hath held fast to his steps; His way have I kept, and turned not aside. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have not gone back from the commandment of his lips; I have treasured up the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? And what his soul desireth, even that he doeth. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he performeth that which is appointed for me: And many such things are with him. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore am I terrified at his presence; When I consider, I am afraid of him. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For God hath made my heart faint, And the Almighty hath terrified me; <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because I was not cut off before the darkness, Neither did he cover the thick darkness from my face.</p>

</body>
</html>