<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job again took up his parable, and said, <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As God liveth, who hath taken away my right, And the Almighty, who hath vexed my soul: <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> (For my life is yet whole in me, And the spirit of God is in my nostrils); <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Surely my lips shall not speak unrighteousness, Neither shall my tongue utter deceit. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Far be it from me that I should justify you: Till I die I will not put away mine integrity from me. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go: My heart shall not reproach me so long as I live. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let mine enemy be as the wicked, And let him that riseth up against me be as the unrighteous.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For what is the hope of the godless, though he get him gain, When God taketh away his soul? <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will God hear his cry, When trouble cometh upon him? <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Will he delight himself in the Almighty, And call upon God at all times? <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will teach you concerning the hand of God; That which is with the Almighty will I not conceal. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it; Why then are ye become altogether vain?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the portion of a wicked man with God, And the heritage of oppressors, which they receive from the Almighty: <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If his children be multiplied, it is for the sword; And his offspring shall not be satisfied with bread. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Those that remain of him shall be buried in death, And his widows shall make no lamentation. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Though he heap up silver as the dust, And prepare raiment as the clay; <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, And the innocent shall divide the silver. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He buildeth his house as the moth, And as a booth which the keeper maketh. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He lieth down rich, but he shall not be gathered to his fathers; He openeth his eyes, and he is not. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Terrors overtake him like waters; A tempest stealeth him away in the night. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The east wind carrieth him away, and he departeth; And it sweepeth him out of his place. <a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For God shall hurl at him, and not spare: He would fain flee out of his hand. <a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Men shall clap their hands at him, And shall hiss him out of his place.</p>

</body>
</html>