<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Elihu answered and said, <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thinkest thou this to be thy right, Or sayest thou, My righteousness is more than God’s, <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> That thou sayest, What advantage will it be unto thee? And, What profit shall I have, more than if I had sinned? <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will answer thee, And thy companions with thee. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Look unto the heavens, and see; And behold the skies, which are higher than thou. <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If thou hast sinned, what effectest thou against him? And if thy transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him? <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If thou be righteous, what givest thou him? Or what receiveth he of thy hand? <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy wickedness may hurt a man as thou art; And thy righteousness may profit a son of man.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By reason of the multitude of oppressions they cry out; They cry for help by reason of the arm of the mighty. <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But none saith, Where is God my Maker, Who giveth songs in the night, <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, And maketh us wiser than the birds of the heavens? <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There they cry, but none giveth answer, Because of the pride of evil men. <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely God will not hear an empty cry, Neither will the Almighty regard it. <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How much less when thou sayest thou beholdest him not, The cause is before him, and thou waitest for him! <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But now, because he hath not visited in his anger, Neither doth he greatly regard arrogance; <a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore doth Job open his mouth in vanity; He multiplieth words without knowledge.</p>

</body>
</html>