<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Oh that my vexation were but weighed, And all my calamity laid in the balances! <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For now it would be heavier than the sand of the seas: Therefore have my words been rash. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, The poison whereof my spirit drinketh up: The terrors of God do set themselves in array against me. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? Or loweth the ox over his fodder? <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Can that which hath no savor be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg? <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My soul refuseth to touch them; They are as loathsome food to me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Oh that I might have my request; And that God would grant me the thing that I long for! <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Even that it would please God to crush me; That he would let loose his hand, and cut me off! <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And be it still my consolation, Yea, let me exult in pain that spareth not, That I have not denied the words of the Holy One. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> What is my strength, that I should wait? And what is mine end, that I should be patient? <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh of brass? <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Is it not that I have no help in me, And that wisdom is driven quite from me? <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> To him that is ready to faint kindness should be showed from his friend; Even to him that forsaketh the fear of the Almighty. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, As the channel of brooks that pass away; <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Which are black by reason of the ice, And wherein the snow hideth itself: <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> What time they wax warm, they vanish; When it is hot, they are consumed out of their place. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The caravans that travel by the way of them turn aside; They go up into the waste, and perish. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The caravans of Tema looked, The companies of Sheba waited for them. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They were put to shame because they had hoped; They came thither, and were confounded. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For now ye are nothing; Ye see a terror, and are afraid. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Did I say, Give unto me? Or, Offer a present for me of your substance? <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Or, Deliver me from the adversary’s hand? Or, Redeem me from the hand of the oppressors? <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Teach me, and I will hold my peace; And cause me to understand wherein I have erred. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> How forcible are words of uprightness! But your reproof, what doth it reprove? <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Do ye think to reprove words, Seeing that the speeches of one that is desperate are as wind? <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Yea, ye would cast lots upon the fatherless, And make merchandise of your friend. <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now therefore be pleased to look upon me; For surely I shall not lie to your face. <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Return, I pray you, let there be no injustice; Yea, return again, my cause is righteous. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Is there injustice on my tongue? Cannot my taste discern mischievous things?</p>

</body>
</html>