<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Elihu answered and said, <a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear my words, ye wise men; And give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge. <a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the ear trieth words, As the palate tasteth food. <a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let us choose for us that which is right: Let us know among ourselves what is good. <a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Job hath said, I am righteous, And God hath taken away my right: <a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Notwithstanding my right I am accounted a liar; My wound is incurable, though I am without transgression. <a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What man is like Job, Who drinketh up scoffing like water, <a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, And walketh with wicked men? <a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing That he should delight himself with God. <a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore hearken unto me, ye men of understanding: Far be it from God, that he should do wickedness, And from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity. <a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the work of a man will he render unto him, And cause every man to find according to his ways. <a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, of a surety, God will not do wickedly, Neither will the Almighty pervert justice. <a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who gave him a charge over the earth? Or who hath disposed the whole world? <a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If he set his heart upon himself, If he gather unto himself his spirit and his breath; <a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All flesh shall perish together, And man shall turn again unto dust.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If now thou hast understanding, hear this: Hearken to the voice of my words. <a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shall even one that hateth justice govern? And wilt thou condemn him that is righteous and mighty?- <a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Him that saith to a king, Thou art vile, Or to nobles, Ye are wicked; <a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> That respecteth not the persons of princes, Nor regardeth the rich more than the poor; For they all are the work of his hands. <a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In a moment they die, even at midnight; The people are shaken and pass away, And the mighty are taken away without hand.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For his eyes are upon the ways of a man, And he seeth all his goings. <a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There is no darkness, nor thick gloom, Where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves. <a id="c34_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For he needeth not further to consider a man, That he should go before God in judgment. <a id="c34_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He breaketh in pieces mighty men in ways past finding out, And setteth others in their stead. <a id="c34_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore he taketh knowledge of their works; And he overturneth them in the night, so that they are destroyed. <a id="c34_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He striketh them as wicked men In the open sight of others; <a id="c34_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Because they turned aside from following him, And would not have regard in any of his ways: <a id="c34_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> So that they caused the cry of the poor to come unto him, And he heard the cry of the afflicted. <a id="c34_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When he giveth quietness, who then can condemn? And when he hideth his face, who then can behold him? Alike whether it be done unto a nation, or unto a man: <a id="c34_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> That the godless man reign not, That there be none to ensnare the people.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For hath any said unto God, I have borne chastisement, I will not offend any more: <a id="c34_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> That which I see not teach thou me: If I have done iniquity, I will do it no more? <a id="c34_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Shall his recompense be as thou wilt, that thou refusest it? For thou must choose, and not I: Therefore speak what thou knowest. <a id="c34_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Men of understanding will say unto me, Yea, every wise man that heareth me: <a id="c34_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Job speaketh without knowledge, And his words are without wisdom. <a id="c34_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Would that Job were tried unto the end, Because of his answering like wicked men. <a id="c34_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For he addeth rebellion unto his sin; He clappeth his hands among us, And multiplieth his words against God.</p>

</body>
</html>