<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But now they that are younger than I have me in derision, Whose fathers I disdained to set with the dogs of my flock. <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yea, the strength of their hands, whereto should it profit me? Men in whom ripe age is perished. <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They are gaunt with want and famine; They gnaw the dry ground, in the gloom of wasteness and desolation. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They pluck salt-wort by the bushes; And the roots of the broom are their food. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are driven forth from the midst of men; They cry after them as after a thief; <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So that they dwell in frightful valleys, In holes of the earth and of the rocks. <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Among the bushes they bray; Under the nettles they are gathered together. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are children of fools, yea, children of base men; They were scourged out of the land. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now I am become their song, Yea, I am a byword unto them. <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They abhor me, they stand aloof from me, And spare not to spit in my face. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he hath loosed his cord, and afflicted me; And they have cast off the bridle before me. <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Upon my right hand rise the rabble; They thrust aside my feet, And they cast up against me their ways of destruction. <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They mar my path, They set forward my calamity, Even men that have no helper. <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As through a wide breach they come: In the midst of the ruin they roll themselves upon me. <a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Terrors are turned upon me; They chase mine honor as the wind; And my welfare is passed away as a cloud.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And now my soul is poured out within me; Days of affliction have taken hold upon me. <a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In the night season my bones are pierced in me, And the pains that gnaw me take no rest. <a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By God’s great force is my garment disfigured; It bindeth me about as the collar of my coat. <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He hath cast me into the mire, And I am become like dust and ashes. <a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I cry unto thee, and thou dost not answer me: I stand up, and thou gazest at me. <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou art turned to be cruel to me; With the might of thy hand thou persecutest me. <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou liftest me up to the wind, thou causest me to ride upon it; And thou dissolvest me in the storm. <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, And to the house appointed for all living. <a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Howbeit doth not one stretch out the hand in his fall? Or in his calamity therefore cry for help? <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? Was not my soul grieved for the needy? <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When I looked for good, then evil came; And when I waited for light, there came darkness. <a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My heart is troubled, and resteth not; Days of affliction are come upon me. <a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I go mourning without the sun: I stand up in the assembly, and cry for help. <a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I am a brother to jackals, And a companion to ostriches. <a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> My skin is black, and falleth from me, And my bones are burned with heat. <a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore is my harp turned to mourning, And my pipe into the voice of them that weep.</p>

</body>
</html>