<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, Mine ear hath heard and understood it. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> What ye know, the same do I know also: I am not inferior unto you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely I would speak to the Almighty, And I desire to reason with God. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But ye are forgers of lies; Ye are all physicians of no value. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Oh that ye would altogether hold your peace! And it would be your wisdom. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear now my reasoning, And hearken to the pleadings of my lips. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will ye speak unrighteously for God, And talk deceitfully for him? <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Will ye show partiality to him? Will ye contend for God? <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is it good that he should search you out? Or as one deceiveth a man, will ye deceive him? <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He will surely reprove you If ye do secretly show partiality. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall not his majesty make you afraid, And his dread fall upon you? <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes, Your defences are defences of clay.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak; And let come on me what will. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore should I take my flesh in my teeth, And put my life in my hand? <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, he will slay me; I have no hope: Nevertheless I will maintain my ways before him. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> This also shall be my salvation, That a godless man shall not come before him. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Hear diligently my speech, And let my declaration be in your ears. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold now, I have set my cause in order; I know that I am righteous. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who is he that will contend with me? For then would I hold my peace and give up the ghost.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Only do not two things unto me; Then will I not hide myself from thy face: <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Withdraw thy hand far from me; And let not thy terror make me afraid. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then call thou, and I will answer; Or let me speak, and answer thou me. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> How many are mine iniquities and sins? Make me to know my transgression and my sin. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wherefore hidest thou thy face, And holdest me for thine enemy? <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Wilt thou harass a driven leaf? And wilt thou pursue the dry stubble? <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For thou writest bitter things against me, And makest me to inherit the iniquities of my youth: <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, And markest all my paths; Thou settest a bound to the soles of my feet: <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Though I am like a rotten thing that consumeth, Like a garment that is moth-eaten.</p>

</body>
</html>