<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My soul is weary of my life; I will give free course to my complaint; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will say unto God, Do not condemn me; Show me wherefore thou contendest with me. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is it good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress, That thou shouldest despise the work of thy hands, And shine upon the counsel of the wicked? <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Hast thou eyes of flesh? Or seest thou as man seeth? <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Are thy days as the days of man, Or thy years as man’s days, <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That thou inquirest after mine iniquity, And searchest after my sin, <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Although thou knowest that I am not wicked, And there is none that can deliver out of thy hand?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy hands have framed me and fashioned me Together round about; yet thou dost destroy me. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast fashioned me as clay; And wilt thou bring me into dust again? <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hast thou not poured me out as milk, And curdled me like cheese? <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, And knit me together with bones and sinews. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou hast granted me life and lovingkindness; And thy visitation hath preserved my spirit. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet these things thou didst hide in thy heart; I know that this is with thee: <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I sin, then thou markest me, And thou wilt not acquit me from mine iniquity. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I be wicked, woe unto me; And if I be righteous, yet shall I not lift up my head; Being filled with ignominy, And looking upon mine affliction. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if my head exalt itself, thou huntest me as a lion; And again thou showest thyself marvellous upon me. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, And increasest thine indignation upon me: Changes and warfare are with me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb? I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I should have been as though I had not been; I should have been carried from the womb to the grave. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Are not my days few? cease then, And let me alone, that I may take comfort a little, <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Before I go whence I shall not return, Even to the land of darkness and of the shadow of death; <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The land dark as midnight, The land of the shadow of death, without any order, And where the light is as midnight.</p>

</body>
</html>