<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long will ye hunt for words? Consider, and afterwards we will speak. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Wherefore are we counted as beasts, And are become unclean in your sight? <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou that tearest thyself in thine anger, Shall the earth be forsaken for thee? Or shall the rock be removed out of its place?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, And the spark of his fire shall not shine. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The light shall be dark in his tent, And his lamp above him shall be put out. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The steps of his strength shall be straitened, And his own counsel shall cast him down. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he is cast into a net by his own feet, And he walketh upon the toils. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A gin shall take him by the heel, And a snare shall lay hold on him. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A noose is hid for him in the ground, And a trap for him in the way. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, And shall chase him at his heels. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His strength shall be hunger-bitten, And calamity shall be ready at his side. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The members of his body shall be devoured, Yea, the first-born of death shall devour his members. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He shall be rooted out of his tent where he trusteth; And he shall be brought to the king of terrors. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There shall dwell in his tent that which is none of his: Brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His roots shall be dried up beneath, And above shall his branch be cut off. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His remembrance shall perish from the earth, And he shall have no name in the street. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He shall be driven from light into darkness, And chased out of the world. <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall have neither son nor son’s son among his people, Nor any remaining where he sojourned. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They that come after shall be astonished at his day, As they that went before were affrighted. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Surely such are the dwellings of the unrighteous, And this is the place of him that knoweth not God.</p>

</body>
</html>