<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Surely there is a mine for silver, And a place for gold which they refine. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Iron is taken out of the earth, And copper is molten out of the stone. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Man setteth an end to darkness, And searcheth out, to the furthest bound, The stones of obscurity and of thick darkness. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He breaketh open a shaft away from where men sojourn; They are forgotten of the foot; They hang afar from men, they swing to and fro. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As for the earth, out of it cometh bread; And underneath it is turned up as it were by fire. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The stones thereof are the place of sapphires, And it hath dust of gold. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> That path no bird of prey knoweth, Neither hath the falcon’s eye seen it: <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The proud beasts have not trodden it, Nor hath the fierce lion passed thereby. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He putteth forth his hand upon the flinty rock; He overturneth the mountains by the roots. <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He cutteth out channels among the rocks; And his eye seeth every precious thing. <a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He bindeth the streams that they trickle not; And the thing that is hid bringeth he forth to light.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But where shall wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding? <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Man knoweth not the price thereof; Neither is it found in the land of the living. <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The deep saith, It is not in me; And the sea saith, It is not with me. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It cannot be gotten for gold, Neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof. <a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, With the precious onyx, or the sapphire. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Gold and glass cannot equal it, Neither shall it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal: Yea, the price of wisdom is above rubies. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, Neither shall it be valued with pure gold. <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whence then cometh wisdom? And where is the place of understanding? <a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, And kept close from the birds of the heavens. <a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Destruction and Death say, We have heard a rumor thereof with our ears.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> God understandeth the way thereof, And he knoweth the place thereof. <a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he looketh to the ends of the earth, And seeth under the whole heaven; <a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> To make a weight for the wind: Yea, he meteth out the waters by measure. <a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When he made a decree for the rain, And a way for the lightning of the thunder; <a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then did he see it, and declare it; He established it, yea, and searched it out. <a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom; And to depart from evil is understanding.</p>

</body>
</html>