<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Can a man be profitable unto God? Surely he that is wise is profitable unto himself. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that thou art righteous? Or is it gain to him, that thou makest thy ways perfect? <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Is it for thy fear of him that he reproveth thee, That he entereth with thee into judgment? <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Is not thy wickedness great? Neither is there any end to thine iniquities. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thou hast taken pledges of thy brother for nought, And stripped the naked of their clothing. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, And thou hast withholden bread from the hungry. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But as for the mighty man, he had the earth; And the honorable man, he dwelt in it. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast sent widows away empty, And the arms of the fatherless have been broken. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore snares are round about thee, And sudden fear troubleth thee, <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Or darkness, so that thou canst not see, And abundance of waters cover thee.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Is not God in the height of heaven? And behold the height of the stars, how high they are! <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou sayest, What doth God know? Can he judge through the thick darkness? <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thick clouds are a covering to him, so that he seeth not; And he walketh on the vault of heaven. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Wilt thou keep the old way Which wicked men have trodden? <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who were snatched away before their time, Whose foundation was poured out as a stream, <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Who said unto God, Depart from us; And, What can the Almighty do for us? <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yet he filled their houses with good things: But the counsel of the wicked is far from me. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The righteous see it, and are glad; And the innocent laugh them to scorn, <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Saying, Surely they that did rise up against us are cut off, And the remnant of them the fire hath consumed.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: Thereby good shall come unto thee. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, And lay up his words in thy heart. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up, If thou put away unrighteousness far from thy tents. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And lay thou thy treasure in the dust, And the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks; <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the Almighty will be thy treasure, And precious silver unto thee. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For then shalt thou delight thyself in the Almighty, And shalt lift up thy face unto God. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he will hear thee; And thou shalt pay thy vows. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee; And light shall shine upon thy ways. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When they cast thee down, thou shalt say, There is lifting up; And the humble person he will save. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He will deliver even him that is not innocent: Yea, he shall be delivered through the cleanness of thy hands.</p>

</body>
</html>