<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Should not the multitude of words be answered? And should a man full of talk be justified? <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Should thy boastings make men hold their peace? And when thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed? <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou sayest, My doctrine is pure, And I am clean in thine eyes. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But oh that God would speak, And open his lips against thee, <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And that he would show thee the secrets of wisdom! For he is manifold in understanding. Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less than thine iniquity deserveth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Canst thou by searching find out God? Canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection? <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It is high as heaven; what canst thou do? Deeper than Sheol; what canst thou know? <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The measure thereof is longer than the earth, And broader than the sea. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If he pass through, and shut up, And all unto judgment, then who can hinder him? <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he knoweth false men: He seeth iniquity also, even though he consider it not. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But vain man is void of understanding, Yea, man is born as a wild ass’s colt.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If thou set thy heart aright, And stretch out thy hands toward him; <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If iniquity be in thy hand, put it far away, And let not unrighteousness dwell in thy tents. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Surely then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot; Yea, thou shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear: <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For thou shalt forget thy misery; Thou shalt remember it as waters that are passed away, <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And thy life shall be clearer than the noonday; Though there be darkness, it shall be as the morning. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope; Yea, thou shalt search about thee, and shalt take thy rest in safety. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make thee afraid; Yea, many shall make suit unto thee. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the eyes of the wicked shall fail, And they shall have no way to flee; And their hope shall be the giving up of the ghost.</p>

</body>
</html>