<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered and said, <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have heard many such things: Miserable comforters are ye all. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Shall vain words have an end? Or what provoketh thee that thou answerest? <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I also could speak as ye do; If your soul were in my soul’s stead, I could join words together against you, And shake my head at you. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I would strengthen you with my mouth, And the solace of my lips would assuage your grief. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Though I speak, my grief is not assuaged; And though I forbear, what am I eased? <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But now he hath made me weary: Thou hast made desolate all my company. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou hast laid fast hold on me, which is a witness against me: And my leanness riseth up against me, It testifieth to my face. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He hath torn me in his wrath, and persecuted me; He hath gnashed upon me with his teeth: Mine adversary sharpeneth his eyes upon me. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They have gaped upon me with their mouth; They have smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully: They gather themselves together against me. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God delivereth me to the ungodly, And casteth me into the hands of the wicked. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I was at ease, and he brake me asunder; Yea, he hath taken me by the neck, and dashed me to pieces: He hath also set me up for his mark. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His archers compass me round about; He cleaveth my reins asunder, and doth not spare; He poureth out my gall upon the ground. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He breaketh me with breach upon breach; He runneth upon me like a giant. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, And have laid my horn in the dust. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My face is red with weeping, And on my eyelids is the shadow of death; <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Although there is no violence in my hands, And my prayer is pure.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> O earth, cover not thou my blood, And let my cry have no resting -place. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Even now, behold, my witness is in heaven, And he that voucheth for me is on high. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My friends scoff at me: But mine eye poureth out tears unto God, <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> That he would maintain the right of a man with God, And of a son of man with his neighbor! <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For when a few years are come, I shall go the way whence I shall not return.</p>

</body>
</html>