<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 105</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 105</h2>

<p><a id="c105_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh give thanks unto Jehovah, call upon his name; Make known among the peoples his doings. <a id="c105_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing unto him, sing praises unto him; Talk ye of all his marvelous works. <a id="c105_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Glory ye in his holy name: Let the heart of them rejoice that seek Jehovah. <a id="c105_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Seek ye Jehovah and his strength; Seek his face evermore. <a id="c105_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, His wonders, and the judgments of his mouth, <a id="c105_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O ye seed of Abraham his servant, Ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones. <a id="c105_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He is Jehovah our God: His judgments are in all the earth. <a id="c105_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath remembered his covenant for ever, The word which he commanded to a thousand generations, <a id="c105_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The covenant which he made with Abraham, And his oath unto Isaac, <a id="c105_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a statute, To Israel for an everlasting covenant, <a id="c105_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, The lot of your inheritance; <a id="c105_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they were but a few men in number, Yea, very few, and sojourners in it. <a id="c105_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they went about from nation to nation, From one kingdom to another people. <a id="c105_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He suffered no man to do them wrong; Yea, he reproved kings for their sakes, <a id="c105_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Saying, Touch not mine anointed ones, And do my prophets no harm. <a id="c105_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he called for a famine upon the land; He brake the whole staff of bread. <a id="c105_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He sent a man before them; Joseph was sold for a servant: <a id="c105_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His feet they hurt with fetters: He was laid in chains of iron, <a id="c105_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Until the time that his word came to pass, The word of Jehovah tried him. <a id="c105_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The king sent and loosed him; Even the ruler of peoples, and let him go free. <a id="c105_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He made him lord of his house, And ruler of all his substance; <a id="c105_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> To bind his princes at his pleasure, And teach his elders wisdom. <a id="c105_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Israel also came into Egypt; And Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. <a id="c105_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he increased his people greatly, And made them stronger than their adversaries. <a id="c105_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He turned their heart to hate his people, To deal subtly with his servants. <a id="c105_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He sent Moses his servant, And Aaron whom he had chosen. <a id="c105_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They set among them his signs, And wonders in the land of Ham. <a id="c105_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He sent darkness, and made it dark; And they rebelled not against his words. <a id="c105_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He turned their waters into blood, And slew their fish. <a id="c105_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Their land swarmed with frogs In the chambers of their kings. <a id="c105_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He spake, and there came swarms of flies, And lice in all their borders. <a id="c105_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He gave them hail for rain, And flaming fire in their land. <a id="c105_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He smote their vines also and their fig-trees, And brake the trees of their borders. <a id="c105_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He spake, and the locust came, And the grasshopper, and that without number, <a id="c105_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And did eat up every herb in their land, And did eat up the fruit of their ground. <a id="c105_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He smote also all the first-born in their land, The chief of all their strength. <a id="c105_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he brought them forth with silver and gold; And there was not one feeble person among his tribes. <a id="c105_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Egypt was glad when they departed; For the fear of them had fallen upon them. <a id="c105_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He spread a cloud for a covering, And fire to give light in the night. <a id="c105_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> They asked, and he brought quails, And satisfied them with the bread of heaven. <a id="c105_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He opened the rock, and waters gushed out; They ran in the dry places like a river. <a id="c105_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> For he remembered his holy word, And Abraham his servant. <a id="c105_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he brought forth his people with joy, And his chosen with singing. <a id="c105_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he gave them the lands of the nations; And they took the labor of the peoples in possession: <a id="c105_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> That they might keep his statutes, And observe his laws. Praise ye Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>