<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 86</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 86</h2>

<p><a id="c86_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bow down thine ear, O Jehovah, and answer me; For I am poor and needy. <a id="c86_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Preserve my soul; for I am godly: O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee. <a id="c86_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be merciful unto me, O Lord; For unto thee do I cry all the day long. <a id="c86_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rejoice the soul of thy servant; For unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul. <a id="c86_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive, And abundant in lovingkindness unto all them that call upon thee. <a id="c86_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Give ear, O Jehovah, unto my prayer; And hearken unto the voice of my supplications. <a id="c86_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee; For thou wilt answer me. <a id="c86_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There is none like unto thee among the gods, O Lord; Neither are there any works like unto thy works. <a id="c86_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord; And they shall glorify thy name. <a id="c86_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou art great, and doest wondrous things: Thou art God alone. <a id="c86_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Teach me thy way, O Jehovah; I will walk in thy truth: Unite my heart to fear thy name. <a id="c86_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with my whole heart; And I will glorify thy name for evermore. <a id="c86_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For great is thy lovingkindness toward me; And thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest Sheol. <a id="c86_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> O God, the proud are risen up against me, And a company of violent men have sought after my soul, And have not set thee before them. <a id="c86_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But thou, O Lord, art a God merciful and gracious, Slow to anger, and abundant in lovingkindness and truth. <a id="c86_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Oh turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; Give thy strength unto thy servant, And save the son of thy handmaid. <a id="c86_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Show me a token for good, That they who hate me may see it, and be put to shame, Because thou, Jehovah, hast helped me, and comforted me.</p>

</body>
</html>