<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 148</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 148</h2>

<p><a id="c148_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye Jehovah. Praise ye Jehovah from the heavens: Praise him in the heights. <a id="c148_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Praise ye him, all his angels: Praise ye him, all his host. <a id="c148_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise ye him, sun and moon: Praise him, all ye stars of light. <a id="c148_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, And ye waters that are above the heavens. <a id="c148_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let them praise the name of Jehovah; For he commanded, and they were created. <a id="c148_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He hath also established them for ever and ever: He hath made a decree which shall not pass away. <a id="c148_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Praise Jehovah from the earth, Ye sea-monsters, and all deeps. <a id="c148_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Fire and hail, snow and vapor; Stormy wind, fulfilling his word; <a id="c148_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Mountains and all hills; Fruitful trees and all cedars; <a id="c148_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Beasts and all cattle; Creeping things and flying birds; <a id="c148_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Kings of the earth and all peoples; Princes and all judges of the earth; <a id="c148_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Both young men and virgins; Old men and children: <a id="c148_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let them praise the name of Jehovah; For his name alone is exalted; His glory is above the earth and the heavens. <a id="c148_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he hath lifted up the horn of his people, The praise of all his saints; Even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>