<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 83</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 83</h2>

<p><a id="c83_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O God, keep not thou silence: Hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God. <a id="c83_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult; And they that hate thee have lifted up the head. <a id="c83_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thy take crafty counsel against thy people, And consult together against thy hidden ones. <a id="c83_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; That the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. <a id="c83_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For they have consulted together with one consent; Against thee do they make a covenant: <a id="c83_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites; Moab, and the Hagarenes; <a id="c83_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre: <a id="c83_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Assyria also is joined with them; They have helped the children of Lot.</p>

<p><a id="c83_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do thou unto them as unto Midian, As to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the river Kishon; <a id="c83_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who perished at Endor, Who became as dung for the earth. <a id="c83_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb; Yea, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna; <a id="c83_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who said, Let us take to ourselves in possession The habitations of God. <a id="c83_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> O my God, make them like the whirling dust; As stubble before the wind. <a id="c83_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As the fire that burneth the forest, And as the flame that setteth the mountains on fire, <a id="c83_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So pursue them with thy tempest, And terrify them with thy storm. <a id="c83_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Fill their faces with confusion, That they may seek thy name, O Jehovah. <a id="c83_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let them be put to shame and dismayed for ever; Yea, let them be confounded and perish; <a id="c83_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> That they may know that thou alone, whose name is Jehovah, Art the Most High over all the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>