<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Jehovah my God, in thee do I take refuge: Save me from all them that pursue me, and deliver me, <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lest they tear my soul like a lion, Rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O Jehovah my God, if I have done this; If there be iniquity in my hands; <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (Yea, I have delivered him that without cause was mine adversary;) <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it; Yea, let him tread my life down to the earth, And lay my glory in the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Arise, O Jehovah, in thine anger; Lift up thyself against the rage of mine adversaries, And awake for me; thou hast commanded judgment. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And let the congregation of the peoples compass thee about; And over them return thou on high. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah ministereth judgment to the peoples: Judge me, O Jehovah, according to my righteousness, and to mine integrity that is in me. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish thou the righteous: For the righteous God trieth the minds and hearts. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My shield is with God, Who saveth the upright in heart. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God is a righteous judge, Yea, a God that hath indignation every day. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If a man turn not, he will whet his sword; He hath bent his bow, and made it ready. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; He maketh his arrows fiery shafts. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, he travaileth with iniquity; Yea, he hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He hath made a pit, and digged it, And is fallen into the ditch which he made. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His mischief shall return upon his own head, And his violence shall come down upon his own pate. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will give thanks unto Jehovah according to his righteousness, And will sing praise to the name of Jehovah Most High.</p>

</body>
</html>