<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> As the hart panteth after the water brooks, So panteth my soul after thee, O God. <a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: When shall I come and appear before God? <a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My tears have been my food day and night, While they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? <a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These things I remember, and pour out my soul within me, How I went with the throng, and led them to the house of God, With the voice of joy and praise, a multitude keeping holyday. <a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God; for I shall yet praise him For the help of his countenance.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O my God, my soul is cast down within me: Therefore do I remember thee from the land of the Jordan, And the Hermons, from the hill Mizar. <a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterfalls: All thy waves and thy billows are gone over me. <a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yet Jehovah will command his lovingkindness in the day-time; And in the night his song shall be with me, Even a prayer unto the God of my life. <a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? Why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? <a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As with a sword in my bones, mine adversaries reproach me, While they continually say unto me, Where is thy God? <a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why art thou cast down, O my soul? And why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God; for I shall yet praise him, Who is the help of my countenance, and my God.</p>

</body>
</html>