<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 141</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 141</h2>

<p><a id="c141_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, I have called upon thee; make haste unto me: Give ear unto my voice, when I call unto thee. <a id="c141_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my prayer be set forth as incense before thee; The lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. <a id="c141_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Set a watch, O Jehovah, before my mouth; Keep the door of my lips. <a id="c141_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Incline not my heart to any evil thing, To practise deeds of wickedness With men that work iniquity: And let me not eat of their dainties. <a id="c141_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let the righteous smite me, it shall be a kindness; And let him reprove me, it shall be as oil upon the head; Let not my head refuse it: For even in their wickedness shall my prayer continue. <a id="c141_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Their judges are thrown down by the sides of the rock; And they shall hear my words; for they are sweet. <a id="c141_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As when one ploweth and cleaveth the earth, Our bones are scattered at the mouth of Sheol. <a id="c141_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For mine eyes are unto thee, O Jehovah the Lord: In thee do I take refuge; leave not my soul destitute. <a id="c141_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Keep me from the snare which they have laid for me, And from the gins of the workers of iniquity. <a id="c141_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let the wicked fall into their own nets, Whilst that I withal escape.</p>

</body>
</html>