<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 106</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 106</h2>

<p><a id="c106_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye Jehovah. Oh give thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; For his lovingkindness endureth forever. <a id="c106_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who can utter the mighty acts of Jehovah, Or show forth all his praise? <a id="c106_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed are they that keep justice, And he that doeth righteousness at all times. <a id="c106_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Remember me, O Jehovah, with the favor that thou bearest unto thy people; Oh visit me with thy salvation, <a id="c106_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That I may see the prosperity of thy chosen, That I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, That I may glory with thine inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have sinned with our fathers, We have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly. <a id="c106_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; They remembered not the multitude of thy lovingkindnesses, But were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea. <a id="c106_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake, That he might make his mighty power to be known. <a id="c106_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up: So he led them through the depths, as through a wilderness. <a id="c106_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. <a id="c106_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the waters covered their adversaries; There was not one of them left. <a id="c106_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then believed they his words; They sang his praise. <a id="c106_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They soon forgat his works; They waited not for his counsel, <a id="c106_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, And tempted God in the desert. <a id="c106_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he gave them their request, But sent leanness into their soul. <a id="c106_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They envied Moses also in the camp, And Aaron the saint of Jehovah. <a id="c106_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, And covered the company of Abiram. <a id="c106_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And a fire was kindled in their company; The flame burned up the wicked. <a id="c106_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They made a calf in Horeb, And worshipped a molten image. <a id="c106_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thus they changed their glory For the likeness of an ox that eateth grass. <a id="c106_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They forgat God their Saviour, Who had done great things in Egypt, <a id="c106_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wondrous works in the land of Ham, And terrible things by the Red Sea. <a id="c106_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore he said that he would destroy them, Had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, To turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them. <a id="c106_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yea, they despised the pleasant land, They believed not his word, <a id="c106_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But murmured in their tents, And hearkened not unto the voice of Jehovah. <a id="c106_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore he sware unto them, That he would overthrow them in the wilderness, <a id="c106_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And that he would overthrow their seed among the nations, And scatter them in the lands. <a id="c106_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They joined themselves also unto Baal-peor, And ate the sacrifices of the dead. <a id="c106_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Thus they provoked him to anger with their doings; And the plague brake in upon them. <a id="c106_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment; And so the plague was stayed. <a id="c106_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And that was reckoned unto him for righteousness, Unto all generations for evermore. <a id="c106_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> They angered him also at the waters of Meribah, So that it went ill with Moses for their sakes; <a id="c106_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Because they were rebellious against his spirit, And he spake unadvisedly with his lips. <a id="c106_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They did not destroy the peoples, As Jehovah commanded them, <a id="c106_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But mingled themselves with the nations, And learned their works, <a id="c106_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And served their idols, Which became a snare unto them. <a id="c106_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto demons, <a id="c106_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And shed innocent blood, Even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, Whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan; And the land was polluted with blood. <a id="c106_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Thus were they defiled with their works, And played the harlot in their doings. <a id="c106_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Therefore was the wrath of Jehovah kindled against his people, And he abhorred his inheritance. <a id="c106_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he gave them into the hand of the nations; And they that hated them ruled over them. <a id="c106_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Their enemies also oppressed them, And they were brought into subjection under their hand. <a id="c106_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Many times did he deliver them; But they were rebellious in their counsel, And were brought low in their iniquity. <a id="c106_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Nevertheless he regarded their distress, When he heard their cry: <a id="c106_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And he remembered for them his covenant, And repented according to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses. <a id="c106_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He made them also to be pitied Of all those that carried them captive.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Save us, O Jehovah our God, And gather us from among the nations, To give thanks unto thy holy name, And to triumph in thy praise.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, From everlasting even to everlasting. And let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>