<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Jehovah, rebuke me not in thy wrath; Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. <a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For thine arrows stick fast in me, And thy hand presseth me sore. <a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine indignation; Neither is there any health in my bones because of my sin. <a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For mine iniquities are gone over my head: As a heavy burden they are too heavy for me. <a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My wounds are loathsome and corrupt, Because of my foolishness. <a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I am pained and bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long. <a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For my loins are filled with burning; And there is no soundness in my flesh. <a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I am faint and sore bruised: I have groaned by reason of the disquietness of my heart. <a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lord, all my desire is before thee; And my groaning is not hid from thee. <a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My heart throbbeth, my strength faileth me: As for the light of mine eyes, it also is gone from me. <a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my plague; And my kinsmen stand afar off. <a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They also that seek after my life lay snares for me; And they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, And meditate deceits all the day long. <a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But I, as a deaf man, hear not; And I am as a dumb man that openeth not his mouth. <a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yea, I am as a man that heareth not, And in whose mouth are no reproofs. <a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For in thee, O Jehovah, do I hope: Thou wilt answer, O Lord my God. <a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I said, Lest they rejoice over me: When my foot slippeth, they magnify themselves against me. <a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For I am ready to fall, And my sorrow is continually before me. <a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin. <a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But mine enemies are lively, and are strong; And they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied. <a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They also that render evil for good Are adversaries unto me, because I follow the thing that is good. <a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Forsake me not, O Jehovah: O my God, be not far from me. <a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation.</p>

</body>
</html>