<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 104</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 104</h2>

<p><a id="c104_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bless Jehovah, O my soul. O Jehovah my God, thou art very great; Thou art clothed with honor and majesty: <a id="c104_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment; Who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain; <a id="c104_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters; Who maketh the clouds his chariot; Who walketh upon the wings of the wind; <a id="c104_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who maketh winds his messengers; Flames of fire his ministers; <a id="c104_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who laid the foundations of the earth, That it should not be moved for ever. <a id="c104_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou coveredst it with the deep as with a vesture; The waters stood above the mountains. <a id="c104_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> At thy rebuke they fled; At the voice of thy thunder they hasted away <a id="c104_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> (The mountains rose, the valleys sank down) Unto the place which thou hadst founded for them. <a id="c104_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; That they turn not again to cover the earth. <a id="c104_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He sendeth forth springs into the valleys; They run among the mountains; <a id="c104_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They give drink to every beast of the field; The wild asses quench their thirst. <a id="c104_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By them the birds of the heavens have their habitation; They sing among the branches. <a id="c104_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He watereth the mountains from his chambers: The earth is filled with the fruit of thy works. <a id="c104_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, And herb for the service of man; That he may bring forth food out of the earth, <a id="c104_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, And oil to make his face to shine, And bread that strengtheneth man’s heart. <a id="c104_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The trees of Jehovah are filled with moisture, The cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted; <a id="c104_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Where the birds make their nests: As for the stork, the fir-trees are her house. <a id="c104_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The high mountains are for the wild goats; The rocks are a refuge for the conies. <a id="c104_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He appointed the moon for seasons: The sun knoweth his going down. <a id="c104_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou makest darkness, and it is night, Wherein all the beasts of the forest creep forth. <a id="c104_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The young lions roar after their prey, And seek their food from God. <a id="c104_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sun ariseth, they get them away, And lay them down in their dens. <a id="c104_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Man goeth forth unto his work And to his labor until the evening. <a id="c104_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> O Jehovah, how manifold are thy works! In wisdom hast thou made them all: The earth is full of thy riches. <a id="c104_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Yonder is the sea, great and wide, Wherein are things creeping innumerable, Both small and great beasts. <a id="c104_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There go the ships; There is leviathan, whom thou hast formed to play therein. <a id="c104_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These wait all for thee, That thou mayest give them their food in due season. <a id="c104_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou givest unto them, they gather; Thou openest thy hand, they are satisfied with good. <a id="c104_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled; Thou takest away their breath, they die, And return to their dust. <a id="c104_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Thou sendest forth thy Spirit, they are created; And thou renewest the face of the ground. <a id="c104_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let the glory of Jehovah endure for ever; Let Jehovah rejoice in his works: <a id="c104_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Who looketh on the earth, and it trembleth; He toucheth the mountains, and they smoke. <a id="c104_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I will sing unto Jehovah as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have any being. <a id="c104_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let thy meditation be sweet unto him: I will rejoice in Jehovah. <a id="c104_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Let sinners be consumed out of the earth. And let the wicked be no more. Bless Jehovah, O my soul. Praise ye Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>