<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my groaning? <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou answerest not; And in the night season, and am not silent. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Our fathers trusted in thee: They trusted, and thou didst deliver them. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They cried unto thee, and were delivered: They trusted in thee, and were not put to shame. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I am a worm, and no man; A reproach of men, and despised of the people. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All they that see me laugh me to scorn: They shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Commit thyself unto Jehovah; Let him deliver him: Let him rescue him, seeing he delighteth in him. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But thou art he that took me out of the womb; Thou didst make me trust when I was upon my mother’s breasts. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I was cast upon thee from the womb; Thou art my God since my mother bare me. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be not far from me; for trouble is near; For there is none to help. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Many bulls have compassed me; Strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They gape upon me with their mouth, As a ravening and a roaring lion. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am poured out like water, And all my bones are out of joint: My heart is like wax; It is melted within me. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My strength is dried up like a potsherd; And my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; And thou hast brought me into the dust of death. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For dogs have compassed me: A company of evil-doers have inclosed me; They pierced my hands and my feet. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I may count all my bones; They look and stare upon me. <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They part my garments among them, And upon my vesture do they cast lots. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But be not thou far off, O Jehovah: O thou my succor, haste thee to help me. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Deliver my soul from the sword, My darling from the power of the dog. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Save me from the lion’s mouth; Yea, from the horns of the wild-oxen thou hast answered me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I will declare thy name unto my brethren: In the midst of the assembly will I praise thee. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ye that fear Jehovah, praise him; All ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; And stand in awe of him, all ye the seed of Israel. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; Neither hath he hid his face from him; But when he cried unto him, he heard. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Of thee cometh my praise in the great assembly: I will pay my vows before them that fear him. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The meek shall eat and be satisfied; They shall praise Jehovah that seek after him: Let your heart live for ever. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn unto Jehovah; And all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the kingdom is Jehovah’s; And he is the ruler over the nations. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship: All they that go down to the dust shall bow before him, Even he that cannot keep his soul alive. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> A seed shall serve him; It shall be told of the Lord unto the next generation. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> They shall come and shall declare his righteousness Unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done it.</p>

</body>
</html>