<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 64</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 64</h2>

<p><a id="c64_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint: Preserve my life from fear of the enemy. <a id="c64_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hide me from the secret counsel of evil-doers, From the tumult of the workers of iniquity; <a id="c64_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who have whet their tongue like a sword, And have aimed their arrows, even bitter words, <a id="c64_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That they may shoot in secret places at the perfect: Suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not. <a id="c64_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They encourage themselves in an evil purpose; They commune of laying snares privily; They say, Who will see them? <a id="c64_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They search out iniquities; We have accomplished, say they, a diligent search: And the inward thought and the heart of every one is deep. <a id="c64_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But God will shoot at them; With an arrow suddenly shall they be wounded. <a id="c64_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> So they shall be made to stumble, their own tongue being against them: All that see them shall wag the head. <a id="c64_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And all men shall fear; And they shall declare the work of God, And shall wisely consider of his doing. <a id="c64_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The righteous shall be glad in Jehovah, and shall take refuge in him; And all the upright in heart shall glory.</p>

</body>
</html>