<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 62</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 62</h2>

<p><a id="c62_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My soul waiteth in silence for God only: From him cometh my salvation. <a id="c62_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He only is my rock and my salvation: He is my high tower; I shall not be greatly moved. <a id="c62_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> How long will ye set upon a man, That ye may slay him, all of you, Like a leaning wall, like a tottering fence? <a id="c62_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They only consult to thrust him down from his dignity; They delight in lies; They bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My soul, wait thou in silence for God only; For my expectation is from him. <a id="c62_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He only is my rock and my salvation: He is my high tower; I shall not be moved. <a id="c62_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> With God is my salvation and my glory: The rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God. <a id="c62_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Trust in him at all times, ye people; Pour out your heart before him: God is a refuge for us.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie: In the balances they will go up; They are together lighter than vanity. <a id="c62_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Trust not in oppression, And become not vain in robbery: If riches increase, set not your heart thereon. <a id="c62_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> God hath spoken once, Twice have I heard this, That power belongeth unto God. <a id="c62_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth lovingkindness; For thou renderest to every man according to his work.</p>

</body>
</html>