<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 81</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 81</h2>

<p><a id="c81_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Sing aloud unto God our strength: Make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob. <a id="c81_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Raise a song, and bring hither the timbrel, The pleasant harp with the psaltery. <a id="c81_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blow the trumpet at the new moon, At the full moon, on our feast-day. <a id="c81_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For it is a statute for Israel, An ordinance of the God of Jacob. <a id="c81_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He appointed it in Joseph for a testimony, When he went out over the land of Egypt, Where I heard a language that I knew not. <a id="c81_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I removed his shoulder from the burden: His hands were freed from the basket. <a id="c81_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder; I proved thee at the waters of Meribah.</p>

<p><a id="c81_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if thou wouldest hearken unto me! <a id="c81_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There shall no strange god be in thee; Neither shalt thou worship any foreign god. <a id="c81_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I am Jehovah thy God, Who brought thee up out of the land of Egypt: Open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. <a id="c81_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But my people hearkened not to my voice; And Israel would none of me. <a id="c81_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So I let them go after the stubbornness of their heart, That they might walk in their own counsels. <a id="c81_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Oh that my people would hearken unto me, That Israel would walk in my ways! <a id="c81_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I would soon subdue their enemies, And turn my hand against their adversaries. <a id="c81_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The haters of Jehovah should submit themselves unto him: But their time should endure for ever. <a id="c81_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He would feed them also with the finest of the wheat; And with honey out of the rock would I satisfy thee.</p>

</body>
</html>