<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed is he that considereth the poor: Jehovah will deliver him in the day of evil. <a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah will preserve him, and keep him alive, And he shall be blessed upon the earth; And deliver not thou him unto the will of his enemies. <a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah will support him upon the couch of languishing: Thou makest all his bed in his sickness. <a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I said, O Jehovah, have mercy upon me: Heal my soul; for I have sinned against thee. <a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Mine enemies speak evil against me, saying, When will he die, and his name perish? <a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if he come to see me, he speaketh falsehood; His heart gathereth iniquity to itself: When he goeth abroad, he telleth it. <a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All that hate me whisper together against me; Against me do they devise my hurt. <a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him; And now that he lieth he shall rise up no more. <a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, Who did eat of my bread, Hath lifted up his heel against me. <a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But thou, O Jehovah, have mercy upon me, and raise me up, That I may requite them. <a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By this I know that thou delightest in me, Because mine enemy doth not triumph over me. <a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, And settest me before thy face for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Blessed be Jehovah, the God of Israel, From everlasting and to everlasting. Amen, and Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>