<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 69</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 69</h2>

<p><a id="c69_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Save me, O God; For the waters are come in unto my soul. <a id="c69_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me. <a id="c69_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I am weary with my crying; my throat is dried: Mine eyes fail while I wait for my God. <a id="c69_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head: They that would cut me off, being mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty: That which I took not away I have to restore. <a id="c69_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O God, thou knowest my foolishness; And my sins are not hid from thee. <a id="c69_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let not them that wait for thee be put to shame through me, O Lord Jehovah of hosts: Let not those that seek thee be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel. <a id="c69_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; Shame hath covered my face. <a id="c69_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I am become a stranger unto my brethren, And an alien unto my mother’s children. <a id="c69_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the zeal of thy house hath eaten me up; And the reproaches of them that reproach thee are fallen upon me. <a id="c69_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, That was to my reproach. <a id="c69_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword unto them. <a id="c69_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They that sit in the gate talk of me; And I am the song of the drunkards. <a id="c69_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O Jehovah, in an acceptable time: O God, in the abundance of thy lovingkindness, Answer me in the truth of thy salvation. <a id="c69_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: Let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters. <a id="c69_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let not the waterflood overwhelm me, Neither let the deep shallow me up; And let not the pit shut its mouth upon me. <a id="c69_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Answer me, O Jehovah; for thy lovingkindness is good: According to the multitude of thy tender mercies turn thou unto me. <a id="c69_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And hide not thy face from thy servant; For I am in distress; answer me speedily. <a id="c69_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it: Ransom me because of mine enemies. <a id="c69_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou knowest my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonor: Mine adversaries are all before thee. <a id="c69_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: And I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; And for comforters, but I found none. <a id="c69_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They gave me also gall for my food; And in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. <a id="c69_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let their table before them become a snare; And when they are in peace, let it become a trap. <a id="c69_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Let their eyes be darkened, so that they cannot see; And make their loins continually to shake. <a id="c69_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Pour out thine indignation upon them, And let the fierceness of thine anger overtake them. <a id="c69_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let their habitation be desolate; Let none dwell in their tents. <a id="c69_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten; And they tell of the sorrow of those whom thou hast wounded. <a id="c69_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Add iniquity unto their iniquity; And let them not come into thy righteousness. <a id="c69_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Let them be blotted out of the book of life, And not be written with the righteous. <a id="c69_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But I am poor and sorrowful: Let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high. <a id="c69_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will praise the name of God with a song, And will magnify him with thanksgiving. <a id="c69_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And it will please Jehovah better than an ox, Or a bullock that hath horns and hoofs. <a id="c69_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The meek have seen it, and are glad: Ye that seek after God, let your heart live. <a id="c69_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For Jehovah heareth the needy, And despiseth not his prisoners. <a id="c69_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let heaven and earth praise him, The seas, and everything that moveth therein. <a id="c69_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For God will save Zion, and build the cities of Judah; And they shall abide there, and have it in possession. <a id="c69_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The seed also of his servants shall inherit it; And they that love his name shall dwell therein.</p>

</body>
</html>