<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 132</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 132</h2>

<p><a id="c132_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, remember for David All his affliction; <a id="c132_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How he sware unto Jehovah, And vowed unto the Mighty One of Jacob: <a id="c132_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, Nor go up into my bed; <a id="c132_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will not give sleep to mine eyes, Or slumber to mine eyelids; <a id="c132_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Until I find out a place for Jehovah, A tabernacle for the Mighty One of Jacob. <a id="c132_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lo, we heard of it in Ephrathah: We found it in the field of the wood. <a id="c132_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> We will go into his tabernacles; We will worship at his footstool. <a id="c132_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Arise, O Jehovah, into thy resting-place; Thou, and the ark of thy strength. <a id="c132_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let thy priest be clothed with righteousness; And let thy saints shout for joy. <a id="c132_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thy servant David’s sake Turn not away the face of thine anointed. <a id="c132_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah hath sworn unto David in truth; He will not turn from it: Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne. <a id="c132_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thy children will keep my covenant And my testimony that I shall teach them, Their children also shall sit upon thy throne for evermore. <a id="c132_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For Jehovah hath chosen Zion; He hath desired it for his habitation. <a id="c132_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> This is my resting-place for ever: Here will I dwell; for I have desired it. <a id="c132_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread. <a id="c132_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Her priests also will I clothe with salvation; And her saints shall shout aloud for joy. <a id="c132_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed. <a id="c132_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His enemies will I clothe with shame; But upon himself shall his crown flourish.</p>

</body>
</html>