<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I waited patiently for Jehovah; And he inclined unto me, and heard my cry. <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay; And he set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings. <a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God: Many shall see it, and fear, And shall trust in Jehovah. <a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed is the man that maketh Jehovah his trust, And respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. <a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Many, O Jehovah my God, are the wonderful works which thou hast done, And thy thoughts which are to us-ward; They cannot be set in order unto thee; If I would declare and speak of them, They are more than can be numbered. <a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sacrifice and offering thou hast no delight in; Mine ears hast thou opened: Burnt-offering and sin-offering hast thou not required. <a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said I, Lo, I am come; In the roll of the book it is written of me: <a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I delight to do thy will, O my God; Yea, thy law is within my heart. <a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have proclaimed glad tidings of righteousness in the great assembly; Lo, I will not refrain my lips, O Jehovah, thou knowest. <a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation; I have not concealed thy lovingkindness and thy truth from the great assembly. <a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O Jehovah; Let thy lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me. <a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For innumerable evils have compassed me about; Mine iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up; They are more than the hairs of my head; And my heart hath failed me. <a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be pleased, O Jehovah, to deliver me: Make haste to help me, O Jehovah. <a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let them be put to shame and confounded together That seek after my soul to destroy it: Let them be turned backward and brought to dishonor That delight in my hurt. <a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them be desolate by reason of their shame That say unto me, Aha, aha. <a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: Let such as love thy salvation say continually, Jehovah be magnified. <a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But I am poor and needy; Yet the Lord thinketh upon me: Thou art my help and my deliverer; Make no tarrying, O my God.</p>

</body>
</html>