<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 60</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 60</h2>

<p><a id="c60_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O God thou hast cast us off, thou hast broken us down; Thou hast been angry; oh restore us again. <a id="c60_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast made the land to tremble; thou hast rent it: Heal the breaches thereof; for it shaketh. <a id="c60_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast showed thy people hard things: Thou hast made us to drink the wine of staggering. <a id="c60_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, That it may be displayed because of the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That thy beloved may be delivered, Save with thy right hand, and answer us.</p>

<p><a id="c60_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> God hath spoken in his holiness: I will exult; I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth. <a id="c60_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the defence of my head; Judah is my sceptre. <a id="c60_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Moab is my washpot; Upon Edom will I cast my shoe: Philistia, shout thou because of me. <a id="c60_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who will bring me into the strong city? Who hath led me unto Edom? <a id="c60_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hast not thou, O God, cast us off? And thou goest not forth, O God, with our hosts. <a id="c60_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Give us help against the adversary; For vain is the help of man. <a id="c60_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Through God we shall do valiantly; For he it is that will tread down our adversaries.</p>

</body>
</html>