<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 109</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 109</h2>

<p><a id="c109_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise; <a id="c109_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit have they opened against me: They have spoken unto me with a lying tongue. <a id="c109_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have compassed me about also with words of hatred, And fought against me without a cause. <a id="c109_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For my love they are my adversaries: But I give myself unto prayer. <a id="c109_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they have rewarded me evil for good, And hatred for my love. <a id="c109_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Set thou a wicked man over him; And let an adversary stand at his right hand. <a id="c109_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When he is judged, let him come forth guilty; And let his prayer be turned into sin. <a id="c109_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let his days be few; And let another take his office. <a id="c109_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let his children be fatherless, And his wife a widow. <a id="c109_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let his children be vagabonds, and beg; And let them seek their bread out of their desolate places. <a id="c109_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; And let strangers make spoil of his labor. <a id="c109_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let there be none to extend kindness unto him; Neither let there be any to have pity on his fatherless children. <a id="c109_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let his posterity be cut off; In the generation following let their name be blotted out. <a id="c109_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with Jehovah; And let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. <a id="c109_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them be before Jehovah continually, That he may cut off the memory of them from the earth; <a id="c109_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because he remembered not to show kindness, But persecuted the poor and needy man, And the broken in heart, to slay them. <a id="c109_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yea, he loved cursing, and it came unto him; And he delighted not in blessing, and it was far from him. <a id="c109_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment, And it came into his inward parts like water, And like oil into his bones. <a id="c109_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let it be unto him as the raiment wherewith he covereth himself, And for the girdle wherewith he is girded continually. <a id="c109_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This is the reward of mine adversaries from Jehovah, And of them that speak evil against my soul. <a id="c109_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But deal thou with me, O Jehovah the Lord, for thy name’s sake: Because thy lovingkindness is good, deliver thou me; <a id="c109_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I am poor and needy, And my heart is wounded within me. <a id="c109_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and down as the locust. <a id="c109_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My knees are weak through fasting; And my flesh faileth of fatness. <a id="c109_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I am become also a reproach unto them: When they see me, they shake their head. <a id="c109_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Help me, O Jehovah my God; Oh save me according to thy lovingkindness: <a id="c109_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> That they may know that this is thy hand; That thou, Jehovah, hast done it. <a id="c109_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Let them curse, but bless thou: When they arise, they shall be put to shame, But thy servant shall rejoice. <a id="c109_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Let mine adversaries be clothed with dishonor, And let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe. <a id="c109_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will give great thanks unto Jehovah with my mouth; Yea, I will praise him among the multitude. <a id="c109_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For he will stand at the right hand of the needy, To save him from them that judge his soul.</p>

</body>
</html>