<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 107</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 107</h2>

<p><a id="c107_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O give thanks unto Jehovah; For he is good; For his lovingkindness endureth for ever. <a id="c107_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let the redeemed of Jehovah say so, Whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the adversary, <a id="c107_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And gathered out of the lands, From the east and from the west, From the north and from the south. <a id="c107_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way; They found no city of habitation. <a id="c107_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hungry and thirsty, Their soul fainted in them. <a id="c107_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then they cried unto Jehovah in their trouble, And he delivered them out of their distresses, <a id="c107_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He led them also by a straight way, That they might go to a city of habitation. <a id="c107_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Oh that men would praise Jehovah for his lovingkindness, And for his wonderful works to the children of men! <a id="c107_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he satisfieth the longing soul, And the hungry soul he filleth with good.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Such as sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, Being bound in affliction and iron, <a id="c107_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because they rebelled against the words of God, And contemned the counsel of the Most High: <a id="c107_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore he brought down their heart with labor; They fell down, and there was none to help. <a id="c107_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then they cried unto Jehovah in their trouble, And he saved them out of their distresses. <a id="c107_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, And brake their bonds in sunder. <a id="c107_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Oh that men would praise Jehovah for his lovingkindness, And for his wonderful works to the children of men! <a id="c107_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For he hath broken the gates of brass, And cut the bars of iron in sunder.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fools because of their transgression, And because of their iniquities, are afflicted. <a id="c107_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their soul abhorreth all manner of food; And they draw near unto the gates of death. <a id="c107_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then they cry unto Jehovah in their trouble, And he saveth them out of their distresses. <a id="c107_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He sendeth his word, and healeth them, And delivereth them from their destructions. <a id="c107_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Oh that men would praise Jehovah for his lovingkindness, And for his wonderful works to the children of men! <a id="c107_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, And declare his works with singing.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They that go down to the sea in ships, That do business in great waters; <a id="c107_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> These see the works of Jehovah, And his wonders in the deep. <a id="c107_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, Which lifteth up the waves thereof. <a id="c107_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the depths: Their soul melteth away because of trouble. <a id="c107_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, And are at their wits’ end. <a id="c107_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then they cry unto Jehovah in their trouble, And he bringeth them out of their distresses. <a id="c107_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He maketh the storm a calm, So that the waves thereof are still. <a id="c107_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then are they glad because they are quiet; So he bringeth them unto their desired haven. <a id="c107_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Oh that men would praise Jehovah for his lovingkindness, And for his wonderful works to the children of men! <a id="c107_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people, And praise him in the seat of the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He turneth rivers into a wilderness, And watersprings into a thirsty ground; <a id="c107_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> A fruitful land into a salt desert, For the wickedness of them that dwell therein. <a id="c107_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He turneth a wilderness into a pool of water, And a dry land into watersprings. <a id="c107_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, That they may prepare a city of habitation, <a id="c107_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And sow fields, and plant vineyards, And get them fruits of increase. <a id="c107_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; And he suffereth not their cattle to decrease. <a id="c107_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Again, they are diminished and bowed down Through oppression, trouble, and sorrow. <a id="c107_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He poureth contempt upon princes, And causeth them to wander in the waste, where there is no way. <a id="c107_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Yet setteth he the needy on high from affliction, And maketh him families like a flock. <a id="c107_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The upright shall see it, and be glad; And all iniquity shall stop her mouth. <a id="c107_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Whoso is wise will give heed to these things; And they will consider the lovingkindnesses of Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>