<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 139</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 139</h2>

<p><a id="c139_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Jehovah, thou hast searched me, and known me. <a id="c139_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising; Thou understandest my thought afar off. <a id="c139_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou searchest out my path and my lying down, And art acquainted with all my ways. <a id="c139_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For there is not a word in my tongue, But, lo, O Jehovah, thou knowest it altogether. <a id="c139_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast beset me behind and before, And laid thy hand upon me. <a id="c139_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; It is high, I cannot attain unto it. <a id="c139_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? Or whither shall I flee from thy presence? <a id="c139_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, thou art there. <a id="c139_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If I take the wings of the morning, And dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea; <a id="c139_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Even there shall thy hand lead me, And thy right hand shall hold me. <a id="c139_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If I say, Surely the darkness shall overwhelm me, And the light about me shall be night; <a id="c139_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Even the darkness hideth not from thee, But the night shineth as the day: The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. <a id="c139_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For thou didst form my inward parts: Thou didst cover me in my mother’s womb. <a id="c139_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will give thanks unto thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: Wonderful are thy works; And that my soul knoweth right well. <a id="c139_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My frame was not hidden from thee, When I was made in secret, And curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. <a id="c139_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thine eyes did see mine unformed substance; And in thy book they were all written, Even the days that were ordained for me, When as yet there was none of them. <a id="c139_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! How great is the sum of them! <a id="c139_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: When I awake, I am still with thee. <a id="c139_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: Depart from me therefore, ye bloodthirsty men. <a id="c139_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For they speak against thee wickedly, And thine enemies take thy name in vain. <a id="c139_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Do not I hate them, O Jehovah, that hate thee? And am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee? <a id="c139_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I hate them with perfect hatred: They are become mine enemies. <a id="c139_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Search me, O God, and know my heart: Try me, and know my thoughts; <a id="c139_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And see if there be any wicked way in me, And lead me in the way everlasting.</p>

</body>
</html>