<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 147</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 147</h2>

<p><a id="c147_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye Jehovah; For it is good to sing praises unto our God; For it is pleasant, and praise is comely. <a id="c147_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah doth build up Jerusalem; He gathereth together the outcasts of Israel. <a id="c147_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He healeth the broken in heart, And bindeth up their wounds. <a id="c147_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He counteth the number of the stars; He calleth them all by their names. <a id="c147_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Great is our Lord, and mighty in power; His understanding is infinite. <a id="c147_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah upholdeth the meek: He bringeth the wicked down to the ground. <a id="c147_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Sing unto Jehovah with thanksgiving; Sing praises upon the harp unto our God, <a id="c147_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who covereth the heavens with clouds, Who prepareth rain for the earth, Who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains. <a id="c147_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He giveth to the beast his food, And to the young ravens which cry. <a id="c147_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He delighteth not in the strength of the horse: He taketh no pleasure in the legs of a man. <a id="c147_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah taketh pleasure in them that fear him, In those that hope in his lovingkindness. <a id="c147_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Praise Jehovah, O Jerusalem; Praise thy God, O Zion. <a id="c147_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; He hath blessed thy children within thee. <a id="c147_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He maketh peace in thy borders; He filleth thee with the finest of the wheat. <a id="c147_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He sendeth out his commandment upon earth; His word runneth very swiftly. <a id="c147_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He giveth snow like wool; He scattereth the hoar-frost like ashes. <a id="c147_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He casteth forth his ice like morsels: Who can stand before his cold? <a id="c147_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: He causeth his wind to blow, and the waters flow. <a id="c147_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He showeth his word unto Jacob, His statutes and his ordinances unto Israel. <a id="c147_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He hath not dealt so with any nation; And as for his ordinances, they have not known them. Praise ye Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>