<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, Whose sin is covered. <a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed is the man unto whom Jehovah imputeth not iniquity, And in whose spirit there is no guile. <a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When I kept silence, my bones wasted away Through my groaning all the day long. <a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: My moisture was changed as with the drought of summer.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I acknowledged my sin unto thee, And mine iniquity did I not hide: I said, I will confess my transgressions unto Jehovah; And thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this let every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found: Surely when the great waters overflow they shall not reach unto him. <a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou art my hiding-place; thou wilt preserve me from trouble; Thou wilt compass me about with songs of deliverance.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go: I will counsel thee with mine eye upon thee. <a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding; Whose trappings must be bit and bridle to hold them in, Else they will not come near unto thee. <a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Many sorrows shall be to the wicked; But he that trusteth in Jehovah, lovingkindness shall compass him about. <a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be glad in Jehovah, and rejoice, ye righteous; And shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart.</p>

</body>
</html>