<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 92</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 92</h2>

<p><a id="c92_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> It is a good thing to give thanks unto Jehovah, And to sing praises unto thy name, O Most High; <a id="c92_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To show forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, And thy faithfulness every night, <a id="c92_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> With an instrument of ten strings, and with the psaltery; With a solemn sound upon the harp. <a id="c92_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou, Jehovah, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy hands. <a id="c92_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How great are thy works, O Jehovah! Thy thoughts are very deep. <a id="c92_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A brutish man knoweth not; Neither doth a fool understand this: <a id="c92_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the wicked spring as the grass, And when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; It is that they shall be destroyed for ever. <a id="c92_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But thou, O Jehovah, art on high for evermore. <a id="c92_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, lo, thine enemies, O Jehovah, For, lo, thine enemies shall perish; All the workers of iniquity shall be scattered. <a id="c92_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But my horn hast thou exalted like the horn of the wild-ox: I am anointed with fresh oil. <a id="c92_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Mine eye also hath seen my desire on mine enemies, Mine ears have heard my desire of the evil-doers that rise up against me. <a id="c92_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The righteous shall flourish like the palm-tree: He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. <a id="c92_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They are planted in the house of Jehovah; They shall flourish in the courts of our God. <a id="c92_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; They shall be full of sap and green: <a id="c92_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To show that Jehovah is upright; He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.</p>

</body>
</html>