<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 140</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 140</h2>

<p><a id="c140_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Deliver me, O Jehovah, from the evil man; Preserve me from the violent man: <a id="c140_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who devise mischiefs in their heart; Continually do they gather themselves together for war. <a id="c140_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They have sharpened their tongue like a serpent; Adders’ poison is under their lips.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Keep me, O Jehovah, from the hands of the wicked; Preserve me from the violent man: Who have purposed to thrust aside my steps. <a id="c140_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; They have spread a net by the wayside; They have set gins for me.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I said unto Jehovah, Thou art my God: Give ear unto the voice of my supplications, O Jehovah. <a id="c140_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> O Jehovah the Lord, the strength of my salvation, Thou hast covered my head in the day of battle. <a id="c140_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Grant not, O Jehovah, the desires of the wicked; Further not his evil device, lest they exalt themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As for the head of those that compass me about, Let the mischief of their own lips cover them. <a id="c140_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let burning coals fall upon them: Let them be cast into the fire, Into deep pits, whence they shall not rise. <a id="c140_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> An evil speaker shall not be established in the earth: Evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow him. <a id="c140_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I know that Jehovah will maintain the cause of the afflicted, And justice for the needy. <a id="c140_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: The upright shall dwell in thy presence.</p>

</body>
</html>