<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 74</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 74</h2>

<p><a id="c74_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? Why doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture? <a id="c74_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Remember thy congregation, which thou hast gotten of old, Which thou hast redeemed to be the tribe of thine inheritance; And mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt. <a id="c74_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual ruins, All the evil that the enemy hath done in the sanctuary. <a id="c74_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thine adversaries have roared in the midst of thine assembly; They have set up their ensigns for signs. <a id="c74_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They seemed as men that lifted up Axes upon a thicket of trees. <a id="c74_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now all the carved work thereof They break down with hatchet and hammers. <a id="c74_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have set thy sanctuary on fire; They have profaned the dwelling-place of thy name by casting it to the ground. <a id="c74_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They said in their heart, Let us make havoc of them altogether: They have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land. <a id="c74_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We see not our signs: There is no more any prophet; Neither is there among us any that knoweth how long. <a id="c74_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> How long, O God, shall the adversary reproach? Shall the enemy blaspheme thy name for ever? <a id="c74_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why drawest thou back thy hand, even thy right hand? Pluck it out of thy bosom and consume them.</p>

<p><a id="c74_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yet God is my King of old, Working salvation in the midst of the earth. <a id="c74_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: Thou brakest the heads of the sea-monsters in the waters. <a id="c74_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces; Thou gavest him to be food to the people inhabiting the wilderness. <a id="c74_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou didst cleave fountain and flood: Thou driedst up mighty rivers. <a id="c74_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The day is thine, the night also is thine: Thou hast prepared the light and the sun. <a id="c74_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: Thou hast made summer and winter. <a id="c74_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O Jehovah, And that a foolish people hath blasphemed thy name. <a id="c74_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Oh deliver not the soul of thy turtle-dove unto the wild beast: Forget not the life of thy poor for ever. <a id="c74_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Have respect unto the covenant; For the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of violence. <a id="c74_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Oh let not the oppressed return ashamed: Let the poor and needy praise thy name. <a id="c74_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: Remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee all the day. <a id="c74_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Forget not the voice of thine adversaries: The tumult of those that rise up against thee ascendeth continually.</p>

</body>
</html>