<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why do the nations rage, And the peoples meditate a vain thing? <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The kings of the earth set themselves, And the rulers take counsel together, Against Jehovah, and against his anointed, saying, <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let us break their bonds asunder, And cast away their cords from us. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He that sitteth in the heavens will laugh: The Lord will have them in derision. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then will he speak unto them in his wrath, And vex them in his sore displeasure: <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yet I have set my king Upon my holy hill of Zion. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will tell of the decree: Jehovah said unto me, Thou art my son; This day have I begotten thee. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ask of me, and I will give thee the nations for thine inheritance, And the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; Thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter’s vessel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now therefore be wise, O ye kings: Be instructed, ye judges of the earth. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Serve Jehovah with fear, And rejoice with trembling. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Kiss the son, lest he be angry, and ye perish in the way, For his wrath will soon be kindled. Blessed are all they that take refuge in him.</p>

</body>
</html>