<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 79</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 79</h2>

<p><a id="c79_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O God, the nations are come into thine inheritance; Thy holy temple have they defiled; They have laid Jerusalem in heaps. <a id="c79_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be food unto the birds of the heavens, The flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth. <a id="c79_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; And there was none to bury them. <a id="c79_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We are become a reproach to our neighbors, A scoffing and derision to them that are round about us. <a id="c79_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How long, O Jehovah? wilt thou be angry for ever? Shall thy jealousy burn like fire? <a id="c79_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Pour out thy wrath upon the nations that know thee not, And upon the kingdoms that call not upon thy name. <a id="c79_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For they have devoured Jacob, And laid waste his habitation. <a id="c79_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remember not against us the iniquities of our forefathers: Let thy tender mercies speedily meet us; For we are brought very low. <a id="c79_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name; And deliver us, and forgive our sins, for thy name’s sake. <a id="c79_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wherefore should the nations say, Where is their God? Let the avenging of the blood of thy servants which is shed Be known among the nations in our sight. <a id="c79_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee: According to the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to death; <a id="c79_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And render unto our neighbors sevenfold into their bosom Their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord. <a id="c79_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture Will give thee thanks for ever: We will show forth thy praise to all generations.</p>

</body>
</html>