<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 135</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 135</h2>

<p><a id="c135_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise ye Jehovah. Praise ye the name of Jehovah; Praise him, O ye servants of Jehovah, <a id="c135_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye that stand in the house of Jehovah, In the courts of the house of our God. <a id="c135_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise ye Jehovah; for Jehovah is good: Sing praises unto his name; for it is pleasant. <a id="c135_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Jehovah hath chosen Jacob unto himself, And Israel for his own possession. <a id="c135_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I know that Jehovah is great, And that our Lord is above all gods. <a id="c135_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whatsoever Jehovah pleased, that hath he done, In heaven and in earth, in the seas and in all deeps; <a id="c135_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who causeth the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; Who maketh lightnings for the rain; Who bringeth forth the wind out of his treasuries; <a id="c135_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who smote the first-born of Egypt, Both of man and beast; <a id="c135_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who sent signs and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, Upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants; <a id="c135_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who smote many nations, And slew mighty kings, <a id="c135_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sihon king of the Amorites, And Og king of Bashan, And all the kingdoms of Canaan, <a id="c135_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And gave their land for a heritage, A heritage unto Israel his people. <a id="c135_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy name, O Jehovah, endureth for ever; Thy memorial name, O Jehovah, throughout all generations. <a id="c135_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Jehovah will judge his people, And repent himself concerning his servants.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The idols of the nations are silver and gold, The work of men’s hands. <a id="c135_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They have mouths, but they speak not; Eyes have they, but they see not; <a id="c135_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They have ears, but they hear not; Neither is there any breath in their mouths. <a id="c135_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They that make them shall be like unto them; Yea, every one that trusteth in them. <a id="c135_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O house of Israel, bless ye Jehovah: O house of Aaron, bless ye Jehovah: <a id="c135_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> O house of Levi, bless ye Jehovah: Ye that fear Jehovah, bless ye Jehovah. <a id="c135_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Blessed be Jehovah out of Zion, Who dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>