<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Fret not thyself because of evil-doers, Neither be thou envious against them that work unrighteousness. <a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, And wither as the green herb. <a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Trust in Jehovah, and do good; Dwell in the land, and feed on his faithfulness. <a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Delight thyself also in Jehovah; And he will give thee the desires of thy heart. <a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Commit thy way unto Jehovah; Trust also in him, and he will bring it to pass. <a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he will make thy righteousness to go forth as the light, And thy justice as the noon-day. <a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Rest in Jehovah, and wait patiently for him: Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, Because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. <a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: Fret not thyself, it tendeth only to evil-doing. <a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For evil-doers shall be cut off; But those that wait for Jehovah, they shall inherit the land. <a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: Yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and he shall not be. <a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the meek shall inherit the land, And shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. <a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wicked plotteth against the just, And gnasheth upon him with his teeth. <a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Lord will laugh at him; For he seeth that his day is coming. <a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, To cast down the poor and needy, To slay such as are upright in the way. <a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Their sword shall enter into their own heart, And their bows shall be broken. <a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Better is a little that the righteous hath Than the abundance of many wicked. <a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the arms of the wicked shall be broken; But Jehovah upholdeth the righteous. <a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jehovah knoweth the days of the perfect; And their inheritance shall be for ever. <a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They shall not be put to shame in the time of evil; And in the days of famine they shall be satisfied. <a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the wicked shall perish, And the enemies of Jehovah shall be as the fat of lambs: They shall consume; In smoke shall they consume away. <a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again; But the righteous dealeth graciously, and giveth. <a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For such as are blessed of him shall inherit the land; And they that are cursed of him shall be cut off. <a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A man’s goings are established of Jehovah; And he delighteth in his way. <a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down; For Jehovah upholdeth him with his hand. <a id="c37_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have been young, and now am old; Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, Nor his seed begging bread. <a id="c37_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All the day long he dealeth graciously, and lendeth; And his seed is blessed. <a id="c37_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Depart from evil, and do good; And dwell for evermore. <a id="c37_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For Jehovah loveth justice, And forsaketh not his saints; They are preserved for ever: But the seed of the wicked shall be cut off. <a id="c37_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The righteous shall inherit the land, And dwell therein for ever. <a id="c37_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The mouth of the righteous talketh of wisdom, And his tongue speaketh justice. <a id="c37_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The law of his God is in his heart; None of his steps shall slide. <a id="c37_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The wicked watcheth the righteous, And seeketh to slay him. <a id="c37_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Jehovah will not leave him in his hand, Nor condemn him when he is judged. <a id="c37_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Wait for Jehovah, and keep his way, And he will exalt thee to inherit the land: When the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it. <a id="c37_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I have seen the wicked in great power, And spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil. <a id="c37_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But one passed by, and, lo, he was not: Yea, I sought him, but he could not be found. <a id="c37_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright; For there is a happy end to the man of peace. <a id="c37_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> As for transgressors, they shall be destroyed together; The end of the wicked shall be cut off. <a id="c37_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But the salvation of the righteous is of Jehovah; He is their stronghold in the time of trouble. <a id="c37_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Jehovah helpeth them, and rescueth them; He rescueth them from the wicked, and saveth them, Because they have taken refuge in him.</p>

</body>
</html>