<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 72</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 72</h2>

<p><a id="c72_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give the king thy judgments, O God, And thy righteousness unto the king’s son. <a id="c72_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He will judge thy people with righteousness, And thy poor with justice. <a id="c72_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The mountains shall bring peace to the people, And the hills, in righteousness. <a id="c72_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will judge the poor of the people, He will save the children of the needy, And will break in pieces the oppressor. <a id="c72_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They shall fear thee while the sun endureth, And so long as the moon, throughout all generations. <a id="c72_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He will come down like rain upon the mown grass, As showers that water the earth. <a id="c72_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In his days shall the righteous flourish, And abundance of peace, till the moon be no more. <a id="c72_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, And from the River unto the ends of the earth. <a id="c72_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; And his enemies shall lick the dust. <a id="c72_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall render tribute: The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. <a id="c72_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yea, all kings shall fall down before him; All nations shall serve him. <a id="c72_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For he will deliver the needy when he crieth, And the poor, that hath no helper. <a id="c72_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will have pity on the poor and needy, And the souls of the needy he will save. <a id="c72_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence; And precious will their blood be in his sight: <a id="c72_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they shall live; and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: And men shall pray for him continually; They shall bless him all the day long. <a id="c72_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There shall be abundance of grain in the earth upon the top of the mountains; The fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: And they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth. <a id="c72_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His name shall endure for ever; His name shall be continued as long as the sun: And men shall be blessed in him; All nations shall call him happy.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Blessed be Jehovah God, the God of Israel, Who only doeth wondrous things: <a id="c72_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And blessed be his glorious name for ever; And let the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen, and Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.</p>

</body>
</html>