<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 65</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 65</h2>

<p><a id="c65_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Zion; And unto thee shall the vow be performed. <a id="c65_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O thou that hearest prayer, Unto thee shall all flesh come. <a id="c65_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Iniquities prevail against me: As for our transgressions, thou wilt forgive them. <a id="c65_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, That he may dwell in thy courts: We shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, Thy holy temple. <a id="c65_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By terrible things thou wilt answer us in righteousness, Oh God of our salvation, Thou that art the confidence of all the ends of the earth, And of them that are afar off upon the sea: <a id="c65_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who by his strength setteth fast the mountains, Being girded about with might; <a id="c65_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who stilleth the roaring of the seas, The roaring of their waves, And the tumult of the peoples. <a id="c65_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: Thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice. <a id="c65_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it, Thou greatly enrichest it; The river of God is full of water: Thou providest them grain, when thou hast so prepared the earth. <a id="c65_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou waterest its furrows abundantly; Thou settlest the ridges thereof: Thou makest it soft with showers; Thou blessest the springing thereof. <a id="c65_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; And thy paths drop fatness. <a id="c65_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness; And the hills are girded with joy. <a id="c65_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The pastures are clothed with flocks; The valleys also are covered over with grain; They shout for joy, they also sing.</p>

</body>
</html>