<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In thee, O Jehovah, do I take refuge; Let me never be put to shame: Deliver me in thy righteousness. <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bow down thine ear unto me; deliver me speedily: Be thou to me a strong rock, A house of defence to save me. <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou art my rock and my fortress; Therefore for thy name’s sake lead me and guide me. <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Pluck me out of the net that they have laid privily for me; For thou art my stronghold. <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Into thy hand I commend my spirit: Thou hast redeemed me, O Jehovah, thou God of truth. <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I hate them that regard lying vanities; But I trust in Jehovah. <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will be glad and rejoice in thy lovingkindness; For thou hast seen my affliction: Thou hast known my soul in adversities; <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy; Thou hast set my feet in a large place. <a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Have mercy upon me, O Jehovah, for I am in distress: Mine eye wasteth away with grief, yea, my soul and my body. <a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For my life is spent with sorrow, And my years with sighing: My strength faileth because of mine iniquity, And my bones are wasted away. <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because of all mine adversaries I am become a reproach, Yea, unto my neighbors exceedingly, And a fear to mine acquaintance: They that did see me without fled from me. <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel. <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have heard the defaming of many, Terror on every side: While they took counsel together against me, They devised to take away my life. <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I trusted in thee, O Jehovah: I said, Thou art my God. <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My times are in thy hand: Deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me. <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: Save me in thy lovingkindness. <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let me not be put to shame, O Jehovah; for I have called upon thee: Let the wicked be put to shame, let them be silent in Sheol. <a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let the lying lips be dumb, Which speak against the righteous insolently, With pride and contempt. <a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Oh how great is thy goodness, Which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, Which thou hast wrought for them that take refuge in thee, Before the sons of men! <a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In the covert of thy presence wilt thou hide them from the plottings of man: Thou wilt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. <a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Blessed be Jehovah; For he hath showed me his marvellous lovingkindness in a strong city. <a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> As for me, I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: Nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications When I cried unto thee. <a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Oh love Jehovah, all ye his saints: Jehovah preserveth the faithful, And plentifully rewardeth him that dealeth proudly. <a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Be strong, and let your heart take courage, All ye that hope in Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>