<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 48</h2>

<p><a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Great is Jehovah, and greatly to be praised, In the city of our God, in his holy mountain. <a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth, Is mount Zion, on the sides of the north, The city of the great King. <a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> God hath made himself known in her palaces for a refuge. <a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For, lo, the kings assembled themselves, They passed by together. <a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They saw it, then were they amazed; They were dismayed, they hasted away. <a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Trembling took hold of them there, Pain, as of a woman in travail. <a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> With the east wind Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish. <a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As we have heard, so have we seen In the city of Jehovah of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> We have thought on thy lovingkindness, O God, In the midst of thy temple. <a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As is thy name, O God, So is thy praise unto the ends of the earth: Thy right hand is full of righteousness. <a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let mount Zion be glad, Let the daughters of Judah rejoice, Because of thy judgments. <a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Walk about Zion, and go round about her; Number the towers thereof; <a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Mark ye well her bulwarks; Consider her palaces: That ye may tell it to the generation following. <a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For this God is our God for ever and ever: He will be our guide even unto death.</p>

</body>
</html>