<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 77</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 77</h2>

<p><a id="c77_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will cry unto God with my voice, Even unto God with my voice; and he will give ear unto me. <a id="c77_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: My hand was stretched out in the night, and slacked not; My soul refused to be comforted. <a id="c77_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I remember God, and am disquieted: I complain, and my spirit is overwhelmed.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou holdest mine eyes watching: I am so troubled that I cannot speak. <a id="c77_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have considered the days of old, The years of ancient times. <a id="c77_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine own heart; And my spirit maketh diligent search. <a id="c77_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will the Lord cast off for ever? And will he be favorable no more? <a id="c77_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Is his lovingkindness clean gone for ever? Doth his promise fail for evermore? <a id="c77_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hath God forgotten to be gracious? Hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies?</p>

<p><a id="c77_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I said, This is my infirmity; But I will remember the years of the right hand of the Most High. <a id="c77_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will make mention of the deeds of Jehovah; For I will remember thy wonders of old. <a id="c77_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will meditate also upon all thy work, And muse on thy doings. <a id="c77_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary: Who is a great god like unto God? <a id="c77_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou art the God that doest wonders: Thou hast made known thy strength among the peoples. <a id="c77_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph.</p>

<p><a id="c77_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The waters saw thee, O God; The waters saw thee, they were afraid: The depths also trembled. <a id="c77_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The clouds poured out water; The skies sent out a sound: Thine arrows also went abroad. <a id="c77_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The voice of thy thunder was in the whirlwind; The lightnings lightened the world: The earth trembled and shook. <a id="c77_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy way was in the sea, And thy paths in the great waters, And thy footsteps were not known. <a id="c77_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou leddest thy people like a flock, By the hand of Moses and Aaron.</p>

</body>
</html>