<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 71</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 71</h2>

<p><a id="c71_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In thee, O Jehovah, do I take refuge: Let me never be put to shame. <a id="c71_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Deliver me in thy righteousness, and rescue me: Bow down thine ear unto me, and save me. <a id="c71_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be thou to me a rock of habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: Thou hast given commandment to save me; For thou art my rock and my fortress. <a id="c71_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rescue me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, Out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. <a id="c71_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thou art my hope, O Lord Jehovah: Thou art my trust from my youth. <a id="c71_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By thee have I been holden up from the womb; Thou art he that took me out of my mother’s bowels: My praise shall be continually of thee. <a id="c71_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I am as a wonder unto many; But thou art my strong refuge. <a id="c71_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My mouth shall be filled with thy praise, And with thy honor all the day. <a id="c71_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Cast me not off in the time of old age; Forsake me not when my strength faileth. <a id="c71_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For mine enemies speak concerning me; And they that watch for my soul take counsel together, <a id="c71_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Saying, God hath forsaken him: Pursue and take him; for there is none to deliver. <a id="c71_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to help me. <a id="c71_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let them be put to shame and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; Let them be covered with reproach and dishonor that seek my hurt. <a id="c71_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I will hope continually, And will praise thee yet more and more. <a id="c71_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My mouth shall tell of thy righteousness, And of thy salvation all the day; For I know not the numbers thereof. <a id="c71_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will come with the mighty acts of the Lord Jehovah: I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only. <a id="c71_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> O God, thou hast taught me from my youth; And hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works. <a id="c71_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yea, even when I am old and grayheaded, O God, forsake me not, Until I have declared thy strength unto the next generation, Thy might to every one that is to come. <a id="c71_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high; Thou who hast done great things, O God, who is like unto thee? <a id="c71_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou, who hast showed us many and sore troubles, Wilt quicken us again, And wilt bring us up again from the depths of the earth. <a id="c71_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Increase thou my greatness, And turn again and comfort me. <a id="c71_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I will also praise thee with the psaltery, Even thy truth, O my God: Unto thee will I sing praises with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel. <a id="c71_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> My lips shall shout for joy when I sing praises unto thee; And my soul, which thou hast redeemed. <a id="c71_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long; For they are put to shame, for they are confounded, that seek my hurt.</p>

</body>
</html>