<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 94</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 94</h2>

<p><a id="c94_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Jehovah, thou God to whom vengeance belongeth, Thou God to whom vengeance belongeth, shine forth. <a id="c94_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: Render to the proud their desert. <a id="c94_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah, how long shall the wicked, How long shall the wicked triumph? <a id="c94_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They prate, they speak arrogantly: All the workers of iniquity boast themselves. <a id="c94_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They break in pieces thy people, O Jehovah, And afflict thy heritage. <a id="c94_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They slay the widow and the sojourner, And murder the fatherless. <a id="c94_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they say, Jehovah will not see, Neither will the God of Jacob consider. <a id="c94_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Consider, ye brutish among the people; And ye fools, when will ye be wise? <a id="c94_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? He that formed the eye, shall he not see? <a id="c94_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He that chastiseth the nations, shall not he correct, Even he that teacheth man knowledge? <a id="c94_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah knoweth the thoughts of man, That they are vanity. <a id="c94_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O Jehovah, And teachest out of thy law; <a id="c94_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, Until the pit be digged for the wicked. <a id="c94_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Jehovah will not cast off his people, Neither will he forsake his inheritance. <a id="c94_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For judgment shall return unto righteousness; And all the upright in heart shall follow it. <a id="c94_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who will rise up for me against the evil-doers? Who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? <a id="c94_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Unless Jehovah had been my help, My soul had soon dwelt in silence. <a id="c94_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When I said, My foot slippeth; Thy lovingkindness, O Jehovah, held me up. <a id="c94_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the multitude of my thoughts within me Thy comforts delight my soul. <a id="c94_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Shall the throne of wickedness have fellowship with thee, Which frameth mischief by statute? <a id="c94_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, And condemn the innocent blood. <a id="c94_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Jehovah hath been my high tower, And my God the rock of my refuge. <a id="c94_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he hath brought upon them their own iniquity, And will cut them off in their own wickedness; Jehovah our God will cut them off.</p>

</body>
</html>