<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Preserve me, O God; for in thee do I take refuge. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O my soul, thou hast said unto Jehovah, Thou art my Lord: I have no good beyond thee. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As for the saints that are in the earth, They are the excellent in whom is all my delight. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their sorrows shall be multiplied that give gifts for another god: Their drink-offerings of blood will I not offer, Nor take their names upon my lips. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jehovah is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: Thou maintainest my lot. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; Yea, I have a goodly heritage. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will bless Jehovah, who hath given me counsel; Yea, my heart instructeth me in the night seasons. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have set Jehovah always before me: Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth; My flesh also shall dwell in safety. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou wilt not leave my soul to Sheol; Neither wilt thou suffer thy holy one to see corruption. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou wilt show me the path of life: In thy presence is fulness of joy; In thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.</p>

</body>
</html>