<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 84</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 84</h2>

<p><a id="c84_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Jehovah of hosts! <a id="c84_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of Jehovah; My heart and my flesh cry out unto the living God. <a id="c84_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yea, the sparrow hath found her a house, And the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, Even thine altars, O Jehovah of hosts, My King, and my God. <a id="c84_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: They will be still praising thee.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; In whose heart are the highways to Zion. <a id="c84_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Passing through the valley of Weeping they make it a place of springs; Yea, the early rain covereth it with blessings. <a id="c84_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They go from strength to strength; Every one of them appeareth before God in Zion. <a id="c84_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> O Jehovah God of hosts, hear my prayer; Give ear, O God of Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c84_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, O God our shield, And look upon the face of thine anointed. <a id="c84_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, Than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. <a id="c84_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For Jehovah God is a sun and a shield: Jehovah will give grace and glory; No good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. <a id="c84_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> O Jehovah of hosts, Blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.</p>

</body>
</html>