<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 50</h2>

<p><a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Mighty One, God, Jehovah, hath spoken, And called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. <a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined forth. <a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Our God cometh, and doth not keep silence: A fire devoureth before him, And it is very tempestuous round about him. <a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He calleth to the heavens above, And to the earth, that he may judge his people: <a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Gather my saints together unto me, Those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. <a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the heavens shall declare his righteousness; For God is judge himself.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify unto thee: I am God, even thy God. <a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices; And thy burnt-offerings are continually before me. <a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will take no bullock out of thy house, Nor he-goats out of thy folds. <a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For every beast of the forest is mine, And the cattle upon a thousand hills. <a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I know all the birds of the mountains; And the wild beasts of the field are mine. <a id="c50_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If I were hungry, I would not tell thee; For the world is mine, and the fulness thereof. <a id="c50_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Will I eat the flesh of bulls, Or drink the blood of goats? <a id="c50_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Offer unto God the sacrifice of thanksgiving; And pay thy vows unto the Most High: <a id="c50_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, And that thou hast taken my covenant in thy mouth, <a id="c50_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Seeing thou hatest instruction, And castest my words behind thee? <a id="c50_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> When thou sawest a thief, thou consentedst with him, And hast been partaker with adulterers. <a id="c50_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou givest thy mouth to evil, And thy tongue frameth deceit. <a id="c50_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; Thou slanderest thine own mother’s son. <a id="c50_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; Thou thoughtest that I was altogether such a one as thyself: But I will reprove thee, and set them in order before thine eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now consider this, ye that forget God, Lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver: <a id="c50_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoso offereth the sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifieth me; And to him that ordereth his way aright Will I show the salvation of God.</p>

</body>
</html>