<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 85</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 85</h2>

<p><a id="c85_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, thou hast been favorable unto thy land; Thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob. <a id="c85_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people; Thou hast covered all their sin.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast taken away all thy wrath; Thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger. <a id="c85_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Turn us, O God of our salvation, And cause thine indignation toward us to cease. <a id="c85_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations? <a id="c85_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wilt thou not quicken us again, That thy people may rejoice in thee? <a id="c85_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Show us thy lovingkindness, O Jehovah, And grant us thy salvation. <a id="c85_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will hear what God Jehovah will speak; For he will speak peace unto his people, and to his saints: But let them not turn again to folly. <a id="c85_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him, That glory may dwell in our land. <a id="c85_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Mercy and truth are met together; Righteousness and peace have kissed each other. <a id="c85_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Truth springeth out of the earth; And righteousness hath looked down from heaven. <a id="c85_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, Jehovah will give that which is good; And our land shall yield its increase. <a id="c85_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Righteousness shall go before him, And shall make his footsteps a way to walk in.</p>

</body>
</html>