<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 78</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 78</h2>

<p><a id="c78_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ear, O my people, to my law: Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. <a id="c78_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings of old, <a id="c78_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Which we have heard and known, And our fathers have told us. <a id="c78_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> We will not hide them from their children, Telling to the generation to come the praises of Jehovah, And his strength, and his wondrous works that he hath done. <a id="c78_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he established a testimony in Jacob, And appointed a law in Israel, Which he commanded our fathers, That they should make them known to their children; <a id="c78_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That the generation to come might know them, even the children that should be born; Who should arise and tell them to their children, <a id="c78_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> That they might set their hope in God, And not forget the works of God, But keep his commandments, <a id="c78_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And might not be as their fathers, A stubborn and rebellious generation, A generation that set not their heart aright, And whose spirit was not stedfast with God. <a id="c78_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, Turned back in the day of battle. <a id="c78_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They kept not the covenant of God, And refused to walk in his law; <a id="c78_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they forgat his doings, And his wondrous works that he had showed them. <a id="c78_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, In the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan. <a id="c78_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He clave the sea, and caused them to pass through; And he made the waters to stand as a heap. <a id="c78_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In the day-time also he led them with a cloud, And all the night with a light of fire. <a id="c78_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He clave rocks in the wilderness, And gave them drink abundantly as out of the depths. <a id="c78_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He brought streams also out of the rock, And caused waters to run down like rivers. <a id="c78_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yet went they on still to sin against him, To rebel against the Most High in the desert. <a id="c78_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they tempted God in their heart By asking food according to their desire. <a id="c78_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yea, they spake against God; They said, Can God prepare a table in the wilderness? <a id="c78_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, he smote the rock, so that waters gushed out, And streams overflowed; Can he give bread also? Will he provide flesh for his people? <a id="c78_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore Jehovah heard, and was wroth; And a fire was kindled against Jacob, And anger also went up against Israel; <a id="c78_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Because they believed not in God, And trusted not in his salvation. <a id="c78_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Yet he commanded the skies above, And opened the doors of heaven; <a id="c78_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he rained down manna upon them to eat, And gave them food from heaven. <a id="c78_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Man did eat the bread of the mighty: He sent them food to the full. <a id="c78_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens; And by his power he guided the south wind. <a id="c78_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He rained flesh also upon them as the dust, And winged birds as the sand of the seas: <a id="c78_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he let it fall in the midst of their camp, Round about their habitations. <a id="c78_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So they did eat, and were well filled; And he gave them their own desire. <a id="c78_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They were not estranged from that which they desired, Their food was yet in their mouths, <a id="c78_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> When the anger of God went up against them, And slew of the fattest of them, And smote down the young men of Israel. <a id="c78_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For all this they sinned still, And believed not in his wondrous works. <a id="c78_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, And their years in terror. <a id="c78_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> When he slew them, then they inquired after him; And they returned and sought God earnestly. <a id="c78_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they remembered that God was their rock, And the Most High God their redeemer. <a id="c78_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But they flattered him with their mouth, And lied unto him with their tongue. <a id="c78_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For their heart was not right with him, Neither were they faithful in his covenant. <a id="c78_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But he, being merciful, forgave their iniquity, and destroyed them not: Yea, many a time turned he his anger away, And did not stir up all his wrath. <a id="c78_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he remembered that they were but flesh, A wind that passeth away, and cometh not again. <a id="c78_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> How oft did they rebel against him in the wilderness, And grieve him in the desert! <a id="c78_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And they turned again and tempted God, And provoked the Holy One of Israel. <a id="c78_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> They remember not his hand, Nor the day when he redeemed them from the adversary; <a id="c78_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> How he set his signs in Egypt, And his wonders in the field of Zoan, <a id="c78_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And turned their rivers into blood, And their streams, so that they could not drink. <a id="c78_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> He sent among them swarms of flies, which devoured them; And frogs, which destroyed them. <a id="c78_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He gave also their increase unto the caterpillar, And their labor unto the locust. <a id="c78_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> He destroyed their vines with hail, And their sycomore-trees with frost. <a id="c78_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> He gave over their cattle also to the hail, And their flocks to hot thunderbolts. <a id="c78_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, Wrath, and indignation, and trouble, A band of angels of evil. <a id="c78_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> He made a path for his anger; He spared not their soul from death, But gave their life over to the pestilence, <a id="c78_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And smote all the first-born in Egypt, The chief of their strength in the tents of Ham. <a id="c78_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> But he led forth his own people like sheep, And guided them in the wilderness like a flock. <a id="c78_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And he led them safely, so that they feared not; But the sea overwhelmed their enemies. <a id="c78_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, To this mountain, which his right hand had gotten. <a id="c78_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> He drove out the nations also before them, And allotted them for an inheritance by line, And made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents. <a id="c78_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Yet they tempted and rebelled against the Most High God, And kept not his testimonies; <a id="c78_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> But turned back, and dealt treacherously like their fathers: They were turned aside like a deceitful bow. <a id="c78_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> For they provoked him to anger with their high places, And moved him to jealousy with their graven images. <a id="c78_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> When God heard this, he was wroth, And greatly abhorred Israel; <a id="c78_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, The tent which he placed among men; <a id="c78_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And delivered his strength into captivity, And his glory into the adversary’s hand. <a id="c78_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> He gave his people over also unto the sword, And was wroth with his inheritance. <a id="c78_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> Fire devoured their young men; And their virgins had no marriage-song. <a id="c78_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Their priests fell by the sword; And their widows made no lamentation. <a id="c78_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Then the Lord awaked as one out of sleep, Like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine. <a id="c78_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And he smote his adversaries backward: He put them to a perpetual reproach. <a id="c78_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Moreover he refused the tent of Joseph, And chose not the tribe of Ephraim, <a id="c78_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> But chose the tribe of Judah, The mount Zion which he loved. <a id="c78_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> And he built his sanctuary like the heights, Like the earth which he hath established for ever. <a id="c78_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> He chose David also his servant, And took him from the sheepfolds: <a id="c78_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> From following the ewes that have their young he brought him, To be the shepherd of Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance. <a id="c78_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> So he was their shepherd according to the integrity of his heart, And guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.</p>

</body>
</html>