<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, keep my words, And lay up my commandments with thee. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Keep my commandments and live; And my law as the apple of thine eye. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bind them upon thy fingers; Write them upon the tablet of thy heart. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister; And call understanding thy kinswoman: <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That they may keep thee from the strange woman, From the foreigner that flattereth with her words. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For at the window of my house I looked forth through my lattice; <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, A young man void of understanding, <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Passing through the street near her corner; And he went the way to her house, <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In the twilight, in the evening of the day, In the middle of the night and in the darkness. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And, behold, there met him a woman With the attire of a harlot, and wily of heart. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> She is clamorous and wilful; Her feet abide not in her house: <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now she is in the streets, now in the broad places, And lieth in wait at every corner. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So she caught him, and kissed him, And with an impudent face she said unto him: <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Sacrifices of peace-offerings are with me; This day have I paid my vows. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore came I forth to meet thee, Diligently to seek thy face, and I have found thee. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have spread my couch with carpets of tapestry, With striped cloths of the yarn of Egypt. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I have perfumed my bed With myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning; Let us solace ourselves with loves. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the man is not at home; He is gone a long journey: <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He hath taken a bag of money with him; He will come home at the full moon. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> With her much fair speech she causeth him to yield; With the flattering of her lips she forceth him along. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He goeth after her straightway, As an ox goeth to the slaughter, Or as one in fetters to the correction of the fool; <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Till an arrow strike through his liver; As a bird hasteth to the snare, And knoweth not that it is for his life. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Now therefore, my sons, hearken unto me, And attend to the words of my mouth. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let not thy heart decline to her ways; Go not astray in her paths. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For she hath cast down many wounded: Yea, all her slain are a mighty host. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Her house is the way to Sheol, Going down to the chambers of death.</p>

</body>
</html>