<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, if thou art become surety for thy neighbor, If thou hast stricken thy hands for a stranger; <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth, Thou art taken with the words of thy mouth. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, Seeing thou art come into the hand of thy neighbor: Go, humble thyself, and importune thy neighbor; <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give not sleep to thine eyes, Nor slumber to thine eyelids; <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter, And as a bird from the hand of the fowler.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Go to the ant, thou sluggard; Consider her ways, and be wise: <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Which having no chief, Overseer, or ruler, <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Provideth her bread in the summer, And gathereth her food in the harvest. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, A little folding of the hands to sleep: <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So shall thy poverty come as a robber, And thy want as an armed man. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A worthless person, a man of iniquity, Is he that walketh with a perverse mouth; <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That winketh with his eyes, that speaketh with his feet, That maketh signs with his fingers; <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In whose heart is perverseness, Who deviseth evil continually, Who soweth discord. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; On a sudden shall he be broken, and that without remedy. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There are six things which Jehovah hateth; Yea, seven which are an abomination unto him: <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Haughty eyes, a lying tongue, And hands that shed innocent blood; <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A heart that deviseth wicked purposes, Feet that are swift in running to mischief, <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A false witness that uttereth lies, And he that soweth discord among brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, keep the commandment of thy father, And forsake not the law of thy mother: <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bind them continually upon thy heart; Tie them about thy neck. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When thou walkest, it shall lead thee; When thou sleepest, it shall watch over thee; And when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; And reproofs of instruction are the way of life: <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> To keep thee from the evil woman, From the flattery of the foreigner’s tongue. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Lust not after her beauty in thy heart; Neither let her take thee with her eyelids. <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For on account of a harlot a man is brought to a piece of bread; And the adulteress hunteth for the precious life. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Can a man take fire in his bosom, And his clothes not be burned? <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Or can one walk upon hot coals, And his feet not be scorched? <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So he that goeth in to his neighbor’s wife; Whosoever toucheth her shall not be unpunished. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Men do not despise a thief, if he steal To satisfy himself when he is hungry: <a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; He shall give all the substance of his house. <a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He that committeth adultery with a woman is void of understanding: He doeth it who would destroy his own soul. <a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Wounds and dishonor shall he get; And his reproach shall not be wiped away. <a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For jealousy is the rage of a man; And he will not spare in the day of vengeance. <a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He will not regard any ransom; Neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts.</p>

</body>
</html>