<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of king Lemuel; the oracle which his mother taught him.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> What, my son? and what, O son of my womb? And what, O son of my vows? <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Give not thy strength unto women, Nor thy ways to that which destroyeth kings. <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine; Nor for princes to say, Where is strong drink? <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lest they drink, and forget the law, And pervert the justice due to any that is afflicted. <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, And wine unto the bitter in soul: <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let him drink, and forget his poverty, And remember his misery no more. <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Open thy mouth for the dumb, In the cause of all such as are left desolate. <a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Open thy mouth, judge righteously, And minister justice to the poor and needy.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A worthy woman who can find? For her price is far above rubies. <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heart of her husband trusteth in her, And he shall have no lack of gain. <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> She doeth him good and not evil All the days of her life. <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> She seeketh wool and flax, And worketh willingly with her hands. <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> She is like the merchant-ships; She bringeth her bread from afar. <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> She riseth also while it is yet night, And giveth food to her household, And their task to her maidens. <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> She considereth a field, and buyeth it; With the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard. <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> She girdeth her loins with strength, And maketh strong her arms. <a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> She perceiveth that her merchandise is profitable: Her lamp goeth not out by night. <a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> She layeth her hands to the distaff, And her hands hold the spindle. <a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; Yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. <a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> She is not afraid of the snow for her household; For all her household are clothed with scarlet. <a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> She maketh for herself carpets of tapestry; Her clothing is fine linen and purple. <a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Her husband is known in the gates, When he sitteth among the elders of the land. <a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> She maketh linen garments and selleth them, And delivereth girdles unto the merchant. <a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Strength and dignity are her clothing; And she laugheth at the time to come. <a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> She openeth her mouth with wisdom; And the law of kindness is on her tongue. <a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> She looketh well to the ways of her household, And eateth not the bread of idleness. <a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Her children rise up, and call her blessed; Her husband also, and he praiseth her, saying: <a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Many daughters have done worthily, But thou excellest them all. <a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Grace is deceitful, and beauty is vain; But a woman that feareth Jehovah, she shall be praised. <a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Give her of the fruit of her hands; And let her works praise her in the gates.</p>

</body>
</html>