<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of Agur the son of Jakeh; The oracle.</p>

<p>The man saith unto Ithiel, unto Ithiel and Ucal: <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Surely I am more brutish than any man, And have not the understanding of a man; <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I have not learned wisdom, Neither have I the knowledge of the Holy One. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who hath ascended up into heaven, and descended? Who hath gathered the wind in his fists? Who hath bound the waters in his garment? Who hath established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his son’s name, if thou knowest?</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Every word of God is tried: He is a shield unto them that take refuge in him. <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Add thou not unto his words, Lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Two things have I asked of thee; Deny me them not before I die: <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remove far from me falsehood and lies; Give me neither poverty nor riches; Feed me with the food that is needful for me: <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lest I be full, and deny thee, and say, Who is Jehovah? Or lest I be poor, and steal, And use profanely the name of my God.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Slander not a servant unto his master, Lest he curse thee, and thou be held guilty. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is a generation that curse their father, And bless not their mother. <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, And yet are not washed from their filthiness. <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> There is a generation, oh how lofty are their eyes! And their eyelids are lifted up. <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> There is a generation whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw teeth as knives, To devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The horseleach hath two daughters, crying, Give, give. There are three things that are never satisfied, Yea, four that say not, Enough: <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Sheol; and the barren womb; The earth that is not satisfied with water; And the fire that saith not, Enough. <a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The eye that mocketh at his father, And despiseth to obey his mother, The ravens of the valley shall pick it out, And the young eagles shall eat it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There are three things which are too wonderful for me, Yea, four which I know not: <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of an eagle in the air; The way of a serpent upon a rock; The way of a ship in the midst of the sea; And the way of a man with a maiden. <a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So is the way of an adulterous woman; She eateth, and wipeth her mouth, And saith, I have done no wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For three things the earth doth tremble, And for four, which it cannot bear: <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For a servant when he is king; And a fool when he is filled with food; <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For an odious woman when she is married; And a handmaid that is heir to her mistress.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> There are four things which are little upon the earth, But they are exceeding wise: <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The ants are a people not strong, Yet they provide their food in the summer; <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The conies are but a feeble folk, Yet make they their houses in the rocks; <a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The locusts have no king, Yet go they forth all of them by bands; <a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The lizard taketh hold with her hands, Yet is she in kings’ palaces.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> There are three things which are stately in their march, Yea, four which are stately in going: <a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The lion, which is mightiest among beasts, And turneth not away for any; <a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The greyhound; the he-goat also; And the king against whom there is no rising up. <a id="c30_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, Or if thou hast thought evil, Lay thy hand upon thy mouth. <a id="c30_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, And the wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood; So the forcing of wrath bringeth forth strife.</p>

</body>
</html>