<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, forget not my law; But let thy heart keep my commandments: <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For length of days, and years of life, And peace, will they add to thee. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let not kindness and truth forsake thee: Bind them about thy neck; Write them upon the tablet of thy heart: <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So shalt thou find favor and good understanding In the sight of God and man. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Trust in Jehovah with all thy heart, And lean not upon thine own understanding: <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In all thy ways acknowledge him, And he will direct thy paths. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be not wise in thine own eyes; Fear Jehovah, and depart from evil: <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It will be health to thy navel, And marrow to thy bones. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Honor Jehovah with thy substance, And with the first-fruits of all thine increase: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, And thy vats shall overflow with new wine. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My son, despise not the chastening of Jehovah; Neither be weary of his reproof: <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For whom Jehovah loveth he reproveth; Even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, And the man that getteth understanding. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the gaining of it is better than the gaining of silver, And the profit thereof than fine gold. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> She is more precious than rubies: And none of the things thou canst desire are to be compared unto her. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Length of days is in her right hand; In her left hand are riches and honor. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Her ways are ways of pleasantness, And all her paths are peace. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: And happy is every one that retaineth her. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jehovah by wisdom founded the earth; By understanding he established the heavens. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By his knowledge the depths were broken up, And the skies drop down the dew. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son, let them not depart from thine eyes; Keep sound wisdom and discretion: <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So shall they be life unto thy soul, And grace to thy neck. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then shalt thou walk in thy way securely, And thy foot shall not stumble. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: Yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Be not afraid of sudden fear, Neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh: <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For Jehovah will be thy confidence, And will keep thy foot from being taken.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, When it is in the power of thy hand to do it. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Say not unto thy neighbor, Go, and come again, And to-morrow I will give; When thou hast it by thee. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Devise not evil against thy neighbor, Seeing he dwelleth securely by thee. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Strive not with a man without cause, If he have done thee no harm. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Envy thou not the man of violence, And choose none of his ways. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the perverse is an abomination to Jehovah; But his friendship is with the upright. <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The curse of Jehovah is in the house of the wicked; But he blesseth the habitation of the righteous. <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Surely he scoffeth at the scoffers; But he giveth grace unto the lowly. <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The wise shall inherit glory; But shame shall be the promotion of fools.</p>

</body>
</html>