<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Song of songs, which is Solomon’s.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth; For thy love is better than wine. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thine oils have a goodly fragrance; Thy name is as oil poured forth; Therefore do the virgins love thee. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Draw me; we will run after thee: The king hath brought me into his chambers; We will be glad and rejoice in thee; We will make mention of thy love more than of wine: Rightly do they love thee. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I am black, but comely, Oh ye daughters of Jerusalem, As the tents of Kedar, As the curtains of Solomon. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Look not upon me, because I am swarthy, Because the sun hath scorched me. My mother’s sons were incensed against me; They made me keeper of the vineyards; But mine own vineyard have I not kept. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Tell me, O thou whom my soul loveth, Where thou feedest thy flock, Where thou makest it to rest at noon: For why should I be as one that is veiled Beside the flocks of thy companions?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If thou know not, O thou fairest among women, Go thy way forth by the footsteps of the flock, And feed thy kids beside the shepherds’ tents.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have compared thee, O my love, To a steed in Pharaoh’s chariots. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy cheeks are comely with plaits of hair, Thy neck with strings of jewels. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> We will make thee plaits of gold With studs of silver. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While the king sat at his table, My spikenard sent forth its fragrance. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> My beloved is unto me as a bundle of myrrh, That lieth betwixt my breasts. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My beloved is unto me as a cluster of henna-flowers In the vineyards of En-gedi.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, thou art fair, my love; Behold thou art fair; Thine eyes are as doves.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, thou art fair, my beloved, yea, pleasant: Also our couch is green. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The beams of our house are cedars, And our rafters are firs.</p>

</body>
</html>