<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; Thine eyes are as doves behind thy veil. Thy hair is as a flock of goats, That lie along the side of mount Gilead. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thy teeth are like a flock of ewes that are newly shorn, Which are come up from the washing, Whereof every one hath twins, And none is bereaved among them. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thy lips are like a thread of scarlet, And thy mouth is comely. Thy temples are like a piece of a pomegranate Behind thy veil. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy neck is like the tower of David builded for an armory, Whereon there hang a thousand bucklers, All the shields of the mighty men. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thy two breasts are like two fawns That are twins of a roe, Which feed among the lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Until the day be cool, and the shadows flee away, I will get me to the mountain of myrrh, And to the hill of frankincense.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou art all fair, my love; And there is no spot in thee. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Come with me from Lebanon, my bride, With me from Lebanon: Look from the top of Amana, From the top of Senir and Hermon, From the lions’ dens, From the mountains of the leopards. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast ravished my heart, my sister, my bride; Thou hast ravished my heart with one of thine eyes, With one chain of thy neck. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> How fair is thy love, my sister, my bride! How much better is thy love than wine! And the fragrance of thine oils than all manner of spices! <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thy lips, O my bride, drop as the honeycomb: Honey and milk are under thy tongue; And the smell of thy garments is like the smell of Lebanon. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A garden shut up is my sister, my bride; A spring shut up, a fountain sealed. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy shoots are an orchard of pomegranates, with precious fruits; Henna with spikenard plants, <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Spikenard and saffron, Calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense; Myrrh and aloes, with all the chief spices. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou art a fountain of gardens, A well of living waters, And flowing streams from Lebanon.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Awake, O north wind; and come, thou south; Blow upon my garden, that the spices thereof may flow out. Let my beloved come into his garden, And eat his precious fruits.</p>

</body>
</html>