<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 48</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 48</h2>

<p><a id="c48_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, who are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah; who swear by the name of Jehovah, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousness <a id="c48_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (for they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves upon the God of Israel; Jehovah of hosts is his name): <a id="c48_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have declared the former things from of old; yea, they went forth out of my mouth, and I showed them: suddenly I did them, and they came to pass. <a id="c48_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy neck is an iron sinew, and thy brow brass; <a id="c48_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> therefore I have declared it to thee from of old; before it came to pass I showed it thee; lest thou shouldest say, Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and my molten image, hath commanded them. <a id="c48_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou hast heard it; behold all this; and ye, will ye not declare it? I have showed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, which thou hast not known. <a id="c48_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are created now, and not from of old; and before this day thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I knew them. <a id="c48_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yea, thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from of old thine ear was not opened: for I knew that thou didst deal very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb. <a id="c48_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For my name’s sake will I defer mine anger, and for my praise will I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off. <a id="c48_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, I have refined thee, but not as silver; I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. <a id="c48_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For mine own sake, for mine own sake, will I do it; for how should my name be profaned? and my glory will I not give to another. <a id="c48_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hearken unto me, O Jacob, and Israel my called: I am he; I am the first, I also am the last. <a id="c48_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yea, my hand hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand hath spread out the heavens: when I call unto them, they stand up together. <a id="c48_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Assemble yourselves, all ye, and hear; who among them hath declared these things? He whom Jehovah loveth shall perform his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans. <a id="c48_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I, even I, have spoken; yea, I have called him; I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous. <a id="c48_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; from the beginning I have not spoken in secret; from the time that it was, there am I: and now the Lord Jehovah hath sent me, and his Spirit. <a id="c48_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thus saith Jehovah, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: I am Jehovah thy God, who teacheth thee to profit, who leadeth thee by the way that thou shouldest go. <a id="c48_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Oh that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea: <a id="c48_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy bowels like the grains thereof: his name would not be cut off nor destroyed from before me. <a id="c48_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Go ye forth from Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans; with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it even to the end of the earth: say ye, Jehovah hath redeemed his servant Jacob. <a id="c48_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they thirsted not when he led them through the deserts; he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them; he clave the rock also, and the waters gushed out. <a id="c48_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There is no peace, saith Jehovah, to the wicked.</p>

</body>
</html>