<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Egypt. Behold, Jehovah rideth upon a swift cloud, and cometh unto Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall tremble at his presence; and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will stir up the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and they shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his neighbor; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst of it; and I will destroy the counsel thereof: and they shall seek unto the idols, and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and to the wizards. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will give over the Egyptians into the hand of a cruel lord; and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be wasted and become dry. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the rivers shall become foul; the streams of Egypt shall be diminished and dried up; the reeds and flags shall wither away. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The meadows by the Nile, by the brink of the Nile, and all the sown fields of the Nile, shall become dry, be driven away, and be no more. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the fishers shall lament, and all they that cast angle into the Nile shall mourn, and they that spread nets upon the waters shall languish. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Moreover they that work in combed flax, and they that weave white cloth, shall be confounded. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the pillars of Egypt shall be broken in pieces; all they that work for hire shall be grieved in soul. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The princes of Zoan are utterly foolish; the counsel of the wisest counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings? <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Where then are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now; and let them know what Jehovah of hosts hath purposed concerning Egypt. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Memphis are deceived; they have caused Egypt to go astray, that are the corner-stone of her tribes. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah hath mingled a spirit of perverseness in the midst of her; and they have caused Egypt to go astray in every work thereof, as a drunken man staggereth in his vomit. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Neither shall there be for Egypt any work, which head or tail, palm-branch or rush, may do. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In that day shall the Egyptians be like unto women; and they shall tremble and fear because of the shaking of the hand of Jehovah of hosts, which he shaketh over them. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the land of Judah shall become a terror unto Egypt; every one to whom mention is made thereof shall be afraid, because of the purpose of Jehovah of hosts, which he purposeth against it. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day there shall be five cities in the land of Egypt that speak the language of Canaan, and swear to Jehovah of hosts; one shall be called The city of destruction. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In that day shall there be an altar to Jehovah in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to Jehovah. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto Jehovah of hosts in the land of Egypt; for they shall cry unto Jehovah because of oppressors, and he will send them a saviour, and a defender, and he will deliver them. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Jehovah shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know Jehovah in that day; yea, they shall worship with sacrifice and oblation, and shall vow a vow unto Jehovah, and shall perform it. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jehovah will smite Egypt, smiting and healing; and they shall return unto Jehovah, and he will be entreated of them, and will heal them. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria; and the Egyptians shall worship with the Assyrians. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth; <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> for that Jehovah of hosts hath blessed them, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.</p>

</body>
</html>