<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem; and cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she hath received of Jehovah’s hand double for all her sins. <a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The voice of one that crieth, Prepare ye in the wilderness the way of Jehovah; make level in the desert a highway for our God. <a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low; and the uneven shall be made level, and the rough places a plain: <a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the glory of Jehovah shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together; for the mouth of Jehovah hath spoken it. <a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The voice of one saying, Cry. And one said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field. <a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The grass withereth, the flower fadeth, because the breath of Jehovah bloweth upon it; surely the people is grass. <a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The grass withereth, the flower fadeth; but the word of our God shall stand forever. <a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> O thou that tellest good tidings to Zion, get thee up on a high mountain; O thou that tellest good tidings to Jerusalem, lift up thy voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah, Behold, your God! <a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, the Lord Jehovah will come as a mighty one, and his arm will rule for him: Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. <a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He will feed his flock like a shepherd, he will gather the lambs in his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and will gently lead those that have their young. <a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance? <a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who hath directed the Spirit of Jehovah, or being his counsellor hath taught him? <a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> With whom took he counsel, and who instructed him, and taught him in the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and showed to him the way of understanding? <a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are accounted as the small dust of the balance: Behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little thing. <a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor the beasts thereof sufficient for a burnt-offering. <a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the nations are as nothing before him; they are accounted by him as less than nothing, and vanity. <a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To whom then will ye liken God? or what likeness will ye compare unto him? <a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The image, a workman hath cast it, and the goldsmith overlayeth it with gold, and casteth for it silver chains. <a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He that is too impoverished for such an oblation chooseth a tree that will not rot; he seeketh unto him a skilful workman to set up a graven image, that shall not be moved. <a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Have ye not known? have yet not heard? hath it not been told you from the beginning? have ye not understood from the foundations of the earth? <a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It is he that sitteth above the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers; that stretcheth out the heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in; <a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> that bringeth princes to nothing; that maketh the judges of the earth as vanity. <a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Yea, they have not been planted; yea, they have not been sown; yea, their stock hath not taken root in the earth: moreover he bloweth upon them, and they wither, and the whirlwind taketh them away as stubble. <a id="c40_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> To whom then will ye liken me, that I should be equal to him? saith the Holy One. <a id="c40_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Lift up your eyes on high, and see who hath created these, that bringeth out their host by number; he calleth them all by name; by the greatness of his might, and for that he is strong in power, not one is lacking. <a id="c40_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid from Jehovah, and the justice due to me is passed away from my God? <a id="c40_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard? The everlasting God, Jehovah, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary; there is no searching of his understanding. <a id="c40_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He giveth power to the faint; and to him that hath no might he increaseth strength. <a id="c40_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall: <a id="c40_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> but they that wait for Jehovah shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; they shall walk, and not faint.</p>

</body>
</html>