<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The wilderness and the dry land shall be glad; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose. <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing; the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon: they shall see the glory of Jehovah, the excellency of our God. <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God; he will come and save you. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then shall the lame man leap as a hart, and the tongue of the dumb shall sing; for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert. <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the glowing sand shall become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water: in the habitation of jackals, where they lay, shall be grass with reeds and rushes. <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And a highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it; but it shall be for the redeemed: the wayfaring men, yea fools, shall not err therein. <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast go up thereon; they shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the ransomed of Jehovah shall return, and come with singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy shall be upon their heads: they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.</p>

</body>
</html>