<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 53</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 53</h2>

<p><a id="c53_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who hath believed our message? and to whom hath the arm of Jehovah been revealed? <a id="c53_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he grew up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. <a id="c53_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He was despised, and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and as one from whom men hide their face he was despised; and we esteemed him not. <a id="c53_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows; yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. <a id="c53_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. <a id="c53_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and Jehovah hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. <a id="c53_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He was oppressed, yet when he was afflicted he opened not his mouth; as a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and as a sheep that before its shearers is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. <a id="c53_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who among them considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living for the transgression of my people to whom the stroke was due? <a id="c53_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death; although he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth. <a id="c53_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet it pleased Jehovah to bruise him; he hath put him to grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see <a id="c53_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied: by the knowledge of himself shall my righteous servant justify many; and he shall bear their iniquities. <a id="c53_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he poured out his soul unto death, and was numbered with the transgressors: yet he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.</p>

</body>
</html>