<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 47</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 47</h2>

<p><a id="c47_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Come down, and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground without a throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called tender and delicate. <a id="c47_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take the millstones, and grind meal; remove thy veil, strip off the train, uncover the leg, pass through the rivers. <a id="c47_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thy nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, thy shame shall be seen: I will take vengeance, and will spare no man. <a id="c47_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Our Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel. <a id="c47_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans; for thou shalt no more be called The mistress of kingdoms. <a id="c47_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I was wroth with my people, I profaned mine inheritance, and gave them into thy hand: thou didst show them no mercy; upon the aged hast thou very heavily laid thy yoke. <a id="c47_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou saidst, I shall be mistress for ever; so that thou didst not lay these things to thy heart, neither didst remember the latter end thereof. <a id="c47_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now therefore hear this, thou that art given to pleasures, that sittest securely, that sayest in thy heart, I am, and there is none else besides me; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the loss of children: <a id="c47_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but these two things shall come to thee in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood; in their full measure shall they come upon thee, in the multitude of thy sorceries, and the great abundance of thine enchantments. <a id="c47_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou hast trusted in thy wickedness; thou hast said, None seeth me; thy wisdom and thy knowledge, it hath perverted thee, and thou hast said in thy heart, I am, and there is none else besides me. <a id="c47_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore shall evil come upon thee; thou shalt not know the dawning thereof: and mischief shall fall upon thee; thou shalt not be able to put it away: and desolation shall come upon thee suddenly, which thou knowest not. <a id="c47_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Stand now with thine enchantments, and with the multitude of thy sorceries, wherein thou hast labored from thy youth; if so be thou shalt be able to profit, if so be thou mayest prevail. <a id="c47_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels: let now the astrologers, the star-gazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up, and save thee from the things that shall come upon thee. <a id="c47_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: it shall not be a coal to warm at, nor a fire to sit before. <a id="c47_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus shall the things be unto thee wherein thou hast labored: they that have trafficked with thee from thy youth shall wander every one to his quarter; there shall be none to save thee.</p>

</body>
</html>