<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 44</h2>

<p><a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant, and Israel, who I have chosen: <a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thus saith Jehovah that made thee, and formed thee from the womb, who will help thee: Fear not, O Jacob my servant; and thou, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen. <a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and streams upon the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring: <a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and they shall spring up among the grass, as willows by the watercourses. <a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> One shall say, I am Jehovah’s; and another shall call himself by the name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe with his hand unto Jehovah, and surname himself by the name of Israel. <a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus saith Jehovah, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts: I am the first, and I am the last; and besides me there is no God. <a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I established the ancient people? and the things that are coming, and that shall come to pass, let them declare. <a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have I not declared unto thee of old, and showed it? and ye are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? yea, there is no Rock; I know not any. <a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They that fashion a graven image are all of them vanity; and the things that they delight in shall not profit; and their own witnesses see not, nor know: that they may be put to shame. <a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who hath fashioned a god, or molten an image that is profitable for nothing? <a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all his fellows shall be put to shame; and the workmen, they are of men: let them all be gathered together, let them stand up; they shall fear, they shall be put to shame together. <a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The smith maketh an axe, and worketh in the coals, and fashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with his strong arm: yea, he is hungry, and his strength faileth; he drinketh no water, and is faint. <a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The carpenter stretcheth out a line; he marketh it out with a pencil; he shapeth it with planes, and he marketh it out with the compasses, and shapeth it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man, to dwell in a house. <a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He heweth him down cedars, and taketh the holm-tree and the oak, and strengtheneth for himself one among the trees of the forest: he planteth a fir-tree, and the rain doth nourish it. <a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then shall it be for a man to burn; and he taketh thereof, and warmeth himself; yea, he kindleth it, and baketh bread: yea, he maketh a god, and worshippeth it; he maketh it a graven image, and falleth down thereto. <a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He burneth part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eateth flesh; he roasteth roast, and is satisfied; yea, he warmeth himself, and saith, Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire. <a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the residue thereof he maketh a god, even his graven image; he falleth down unto it and worshippeth, and prayeth unto it, and saith, Deliver me; for thou art my god. <a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They know not, neither do they consider: for he hath shut their eyes, that they cannot see; and their hearts, that they cannot understand. <a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And none calleth to mind, neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire; yea, also I have baked bread upon the coals thereof; I have roasted flesh and eaten it: and shall I make the residue thereof an abomination? shall I fall down to the stock of a tree? <a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He feedeth on ashes; a deceived heart hath turned him aside; and he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand? <a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel; for thou art my servant: I have formed thee; thou art my servant: O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten of me. <a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee. <a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Sing, O ye heavens, for Jehovah hath done it; shout, ye lower parts of the earth; break forth into singing, ye mountains, O forest, and every tree therein: for Jehovah hath redeemed Jacob, and will glorify himself in Israel. <a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thus saith Jehovah, thy Redeemer, and he that formed thee from the womb: I am Jehovah, that maketh all things; that stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth (who is with me?); <a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> that frustrateth the signs of the liars, and maketh diviners mad; that turneth wise men backward, and maketh their knowledge foolish; <a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> that confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the counsel of his messengers; that saith of Jerusalem, She shall be inhabited; and of the cities of Judah, They shall be built, and I will raise up the waste places thereof; <a id="c44_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> that saith to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up thy rivers; <a id="c44_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> That saith of Cyrus, He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure, even saying of Jerusalem, She shall be built; and of the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid.</p>

</body>
</html>