<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 56</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 56</h2>

<p><a id="c56_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus saith Jehovah, Keep ye justice, and do righteousness; for my salvation is near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed. <a id="c56_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the son of man that holdeth it fast; that keepeth the sabbath from profaning it, and keepeth his hand from doing any evil. <a id="c56_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Neither let the foreigner, that hath joined himself to Jehovah, speak, saying, Jehovah will surely separate me from his people; neither let the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree. <a id="c56_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus saith Jehovah of the eunuchs that keep my sabbaths, and choose the things that please me, and hold fast my covenant: <a id="c56_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Unto them will I give in my house and within my walls a memorial and a name better than of sons and of daughters; I will give them an everlasting name, that shall not be cut off. <a id="c56_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Also the foreigners that join themselves to Jehovah, to minister unto him, and to love the name of Jehovah, to be his servants, every one that keepeth the sabbath from profaning it, and holdeth fast my covenant; <a id="c56_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> even them will I bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer: their burnt-offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted upon mine altar; for my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples. <a id="c56_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The Lord Jehovah, who gathereth the outcasts of Israel, saith, Yet will I gather others to him, besides his own that are gathered. <a id="c56_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all ye beasts in the forest. <a id="c56_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His watchmen are blind, they are all without knowledge; they are all dumb dogs, they cannot bark; dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber. <a id="c56_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yea, the dogs are greedy, they can never have enough; and these are shepherds that cannot understand: they have all turned to their own way, each one to his gain, from every quarter. <a id="c56_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Come ye, say they, I will fetch wine, and we will fill ourselves with strong drink; and to-morrow shall be as this day,</p>

</body>
</html>