<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O Jehovah, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful things, even counsels of old, in faithfulness and truth. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For thou hast made of a city a heap, of a fortified city a ruin, a palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be built. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore shall a strong people glorify thee; a city of terrible nations shall fear thee. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast been a stronghold to the poor, a stronghold to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shade from the heat, when the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm against the wall. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As the heat in a dry place wilt thou bring down the noise of strangers; as the heat by the shade of a cloud, the song of the terrible ones shall be brought low. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And in this mountain will Jehovah of hosts make unto all peoples a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering that covereth all peoples, and the veil that is spread over all nations. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath swallowed up death for ever; and the Lord Jehovah will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the reproach of his people will he take away from off all the earth: for Jehovah hath spoken it. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have waited for him, and he will save us: this is Jehovah; we have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For in this mountain will the hand of Jehovah rest; and Moab shall be trodden down in his place, even as straw is trodden down in the water of the dung-hill. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he shall spread forth his hands in the midst thereof, as he that swimmeth spreadeth forth his hands to swim; but <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the high fortress of thy walls hath he brought down, laid low, and brought to the ground, even to the dust.</p>

</body>
</html>