<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to thee that destroyest, and thou wast not destroyed; and dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! When thou hast ceased to destroy, thou shalt be destroyed; and when thou hast made an end of dealing treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> O Jehovah, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thou our arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble. <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> At the noise of the tumult the peoples are fled; at the lifting up of thyself the nations are scattered. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And your spoil shall be gathered as the caterpillar gathereth: as locusts leap shall men leap upon it. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jehovah is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion with justice and righteousness. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And there shall be stability in thy times, abundance of salvation, wisdom, and knowledge: the fear of Jehovah is thy treasure. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, their valiant ones cry without; the ambassadors of peace weep bitterly. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: the enemy hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth not man. <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The land mourneth and languisheth; Lebanon is confounded and withereth away; Sharon is like a desert; and Bashan and Carmel shake off their leaves. <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now will I arise, saith Jehovah; now will I lift up myself; now will I be exalted. <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth stubble: your breath is a fire that shall devour you. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the peoples shall be as the burnings of lime, as thorns cut down, that are burned in the fire. <a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and, ye that are near, acknowledge my might. <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling hath seized the godless ones: Who among us can dwell with the devouring fire? who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings? <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from taking a bribe, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from looking upon evil: <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He shall dwell on high; his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks; his bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure. <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold a land that reacheth afar. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thy heart shall muse on the terror: Where is he that counted, where is he that weighed the tribute? where is he that counted the towers? <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou shalt not see the fierce people, a people of a deep speech that thou canst not comprehend, of a strange tongue that thou canst not understand. <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tent that shall not be removed, the stakes whereof shall never be plucked up, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken. <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But there Jehovah will be with us in majesty, a place of broad rivers and streams, wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby. <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For Jehovah is our judge, Jehovah is our lawgiver, Jehovah is our king; he will save us. <a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not strengthen the foot of their mast, they could not spread the sail: then was the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame took the prey. <a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.</p>

</body>
</html>