<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Come near, ye nations, to hear; and hearken, ye peoples: let the earth hear, and the fulness thereof; the world, and all things that come forth from it. <a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For Jehovah hath indignation against all the nations, and wrath against all their host: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hath delivered them to the slaughter. <a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Their slain also shall be cast out, and the stench of their dead bodies shall come up; and the mountains shall be melted with their blood. <a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll; and all their host shall fade away, as the leaf fadeth from off the vine, and as a fading leaf from the fig-tree. <a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For my sword hath drunk its fill in heaven: behold, it shall come down upon Edom, and upon the people of my curse, to judgment. <a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The sword of Jehovah is filled with blood, it is made fat with fatness, with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams; for Jehovah hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Edom. <a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the wild-oxen shall come down with them, and the bullocks with the bulls: and their land shall be drunken with blood, and their dust made fat with fatness. <a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Jehovah hath a day of vengeance, a year of recompense for the cause of Zion. <a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the streams of Edom shall be turned into pitch, and the dust thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shall become burning pitch. <a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shall go up for ever; from generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it for ever and ever. <a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the pelican and the porcupine shall possess it; and the owl and the raven shall dwell therein: and he will stretch over it the line of confusion, and the plummet of emptiness. <a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They shall call the nobles thereof to the kingdom, but none shall be there; and all its princes shall be nothing. <a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thorns shall come up in its palaces, nettles and thistles in the fortresses thereof; and it shall be a habitation of jackals, a court for ostriches. <a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the wild beasts of the desert shall meet with the wolves, and the wild goat shall cry to his fellow; yea, the night-monster shall settle there, and shall find her a place of rest. <a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There shall the dart-snake make her nest, and lay, and hatch, and gather under her shade; yea, there shall the kites be gathered, every one with her mate. <a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Seek ye out of the book of Jehovah, and read: no one of these shall be missing, none shall want her mate; for my mouth, it hath commanded, and his Spirit, it hath gathered them. <a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he hath cast the lot for them, and his hand hath divided it unto them by line: they shall possess it for ever; from generation to generation shall they dwell therein.</p>

</body>
</html>