<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 57</h2>

<p><a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart; and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil to come. <a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He entereth into peace; they rest in their beds, each one that walketh in his uprightness. <a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But draw near hither, ye sons of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the harlot. <a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Against whom do ye sport yourselves? against whom make ye a wide mouth, and put out the tongue? are ye not children of transgression, a seed of falsehood, <a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> ye that inflame yourselves among the oaks, under every green tree; that slay the children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks? <a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Among the smooth stones of the valley is thy portion; they, they are thy lot; even to them hast thou poured a drink-offering, thou hast offered an oblation. Shall I be appeased for these things? <a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Upon a high and lofty mountain hast thou set thy bed; thither also wentest thou up to offer sacrifice. <a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And behind the doors and the posts hast thou set up thy memorial: for thou hast uncovered thyself to another than me, and art gone up; thou hast enlarged thy bed, and made thee a covenant with them: thou lovedst their bed where thou sawest it. <a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou wentest to the king with oil, and didst increase thy perfumes, and didst send thine ambassadors far off, and didst debase thyself even unto Sheol. <a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou wast wearied with the length of thy way; yet saidst thou not, It is in vain: thou didst find a quickening of thy strength; therefore thou wast not faint. <a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And of whom hast thou been afraid and in fear, that thou liest, and hast not remembered me, nor laid it to thy heart? have not I held my peace even of long time, and thou fearest me not? <a id="c57_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will declare thy righteousness; and as for thy works, they shall not profit thee. <a id="c57_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When thou criest, let them that thou hast gathered deliver thee; but the wind shall take them, a breath shall carry them all away: but he that taketh refuge in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holy mountain. <a id="c57_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he will say, Cast ye up, cast ye up, prepare the way, take up the stumbling-block out of the way of my people. <a id="c57_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy: I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite. <a id="c57_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I will not contend for ever, neither will I be always wroth; for the spirit would faint before me, and the souls that I have made. <a id="c57_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and smote him; I hid my face and was wroth; and he went on backsliding in the way of his heart. <a id="c57_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will lead him also, and restore comforts unto him and to his mourners. <a id="c57_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I create the fruit of the lips: Peace, peace, to him that is far off and to him that is near, saith Jehovah; and I will heal him. <a id="c57_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the wicked are like the troubled sea; for it cannot rest, and its waters cast up mire and dirt. <a id="c57_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked.</p>

</body>
</html>