<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests that were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin: <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to whom the word of Jehovah came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, unto the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, unto the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in the fifth month. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee, and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee; I have appointed thee a prophet unto the nations. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then said I, Ah, Lord Jehovah! behold, I know not how to speak; for I am a child. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But Jehovah said unto me, Say not, I am a child; for to whomsoever I shall send thee thou shalt go, and whatsoever I shall command thee thou shalt speak. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be not afraid because of them; for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith Jehovah. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Jehovah put forth his hand, and touched my mouth; and Jehovah said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth: <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> see, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to pluck up and to break down and to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Moreover the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, Jeremiah, what seest thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almond-tree. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then said Jehovah unto me, Thou hast well seen: for I watch over my word to perform it. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me the second time, saying, What seest thou? And I said, I see a boiling caldron; and the face thereof is from the north. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then Jehovah said unto me, Out of the north evil shall break forth upon all the inhabitants of the land. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For, lo, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north, saith Jehovah; and they shall come, and they shall set every one his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, and against all the walls thereof round about, and against all the cities of Judah. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will utter my judgments against them touching all their wickedness, in that they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, and worshipped the works of their own hands. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou therefore gird up thy loins, and arise, and speak unto them all that I command thee: be not dismayed at them, lest I dismay thee before them. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For, behold, I have made thee this day a fortified city, and an iron pillar, and brazen walls, against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, against the princes thereof, against the priests thereof, and against the people of the land. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they shall fight against thee; but they shall not prevail against thee: for I am with thee, saith Jehovah, to deliver thee.</p>

</body>
</html>