<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Flee for safety, ye children of Benjamin, out of the midst of Jerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and raise up a signal on Beth-haccherem; for evil looketh forth from the north, and a great destruction. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The comely and delicate one, the daughter of Zion, will I cut off. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Shepherds with their flocks shall come unto her; they shall pitch their tents against her round about; they shall feed every one in his place. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Prepare ye war against her; arise, and let us go up at noon. Woe unto us! for the day declineth, for the shadows of the evening are stretched out. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Arise, and let us go up by night, and let us destroy her palaces. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus hath Jehovah of hosts said, Hew ye down trees, and cast up a mound against Jerusalem: this is the city to be visited; she is wholly oppression in the midst of her. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As a well casteth forth its waters, so she casteth forth her wickedness: violence and destruction is heard in her; before me continually is sickness and wounds. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul be alienated from thee; lest I make thee a desolation, a land not inhabited. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus saith Jehovah of hosts, They shall thoroughly glean the remnant of Israel as a vine: turn again thy hand as a grape-gatherer into the baskets. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> To whom shall I speak and testify, that they may hear? behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken: behold, the word of Jehovah is become unto them a reproach; they have no delight in it. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore I am full of the wrath of Jehovah; I am weary with holding in: pour it out upon the children in the street, and upon the assembly of young men together; for even the husband with the wife shall be taken, the aged with him that is full of days. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their houses shall be turned unto others, their fields and their wives together; for I will stretch out my hand upon the inhabitants of the land, saith Jehovah. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For from the least of them even unto the greatest of them every one is given to covetousness; and from the prophet even unto the priest every one dealeth falsely. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They have healed also the hurt of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore they shall fall among them that fall; at the time that I visit them they shall be cast down, saith Jehovah. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus saith Jehovah, Stand ye in the ways and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way; and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls: but they said, We will not walk therein. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet; but they said, We will not hearken. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what is among them. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words; and as for my law, they have rejected it. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> To what purpose cometh there to me frankincense from Sheba, and the sweet cane from a far country? your burnt-offerings are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices pleasing unto me. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Therefore thus saith Jehovah, Behold, I will lay stumbling-blocks before this people; and the fathers and the sons together shall stumble against them; the neighbor and his friend shall perish. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thus saith Jehovah, Behold, a people cometh from the north country; and a great nation shall be stirred up from the uttermost parts of the earth. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no mercy; their voice roareth like the sea, and they ride upon horses, every one set in array, as a man to the battle, against thee, O daughter of Zion. <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> We have heard the report thereof; our hands wax feeble: anguish hath taken hold of us, and pangs as of a woman in travail. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the sword of the enemy, and terror, are on every side. <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> O daughter of my people, gird thee with sackcloth, and wallow thyself in ashes: make thee mourning, as for an only son, most bitter lamentation; for the destroyer shall suddenly come upon us. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I have made thee a trier and a fortress among my people; that thou mayest know and try their way. <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They are all grievous revolters, going about with slanders; they are brass and iron: they all of them deal corruptly. <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The bellows blow fiercely; the lead is consumed of the fire: in vain do they go on refining; for the wicked are not plucked away. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Refuse silver shall men call them, because Jehovah hath rejected them.</p>

</body>
</html>