<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, in the fifth day of the month, as I was among the captives by the river Chebar, that the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the fifth day of the month, which was the fifth year of king Jehoiachin’s captivity, <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the word of Jehovah came expressly unto Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of Jehovah was there upon him. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I looked, and, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, a great cloud, with a fire infolding itself, and a brightness round about it, and out of the midst thereof as it were glowing metal, out of the midst of the fire. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And out of the midst thereof came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: they had the likeness of a man. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And every one had four faces, and every one of them had four wings. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And their feet were straight feet; and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf’s foot; and they sparkled like burnished brass. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides; and they four had their faces and their wings thus: <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> their wings were joined one to another; they turned not when they went; they went every one straight forward. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As for the likeness of their faces, they had the face of a man; and they four had the face of a lion on the right side; and they four had the face of an ox on the left side; they four had also the face of an eagle. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And their faces and their wings were separate above; two wings of every one were joined one to another, and two covered their bodies. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they went every one straight forward: whither the spirit was to go, they went; they turned not when they went. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, like the appearance of torches: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now as I beheld the living creatures, behold, one wheel upon the earth beside the living creatures, for each of the four faces thereof. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The appearance of the wheels and their work was like unto a beryl: and they four had one likeness; and their appearance and their work was as it were a wheel within a wheel. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When they went, they went in their four directions: they turned not when they went. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As for their rims, they were high and dreadful; and they four had their rims full of eyes round about. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whithersoever the spirit was to go, they went; thither was the spirit to go: and the wheels were lifted up beside them; for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood; and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up beside them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And over the head of the living creature there was the likeness of a firmament, like the terrible crystal to look upon, stretched forth over their heads above. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And under the firmament were their wings straight, the one toward the other: every one had two which covered on this side, and every one had two which covered on that side, their bodies. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when they went, I heard the noise of their wings like the noise of great waters, like the voice of the Almighty, a noise of tumult like the noise of a host: when they stood, they let down their wings. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And there was a voice above the firmament that was over their heads: when they stood, they let down their wings. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And above the firmament that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone; and upon the likeness of the throne was a likeness as the appearance of a man upon it above. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I saw as it were glowing metal, as the appearance of fire within it round about, from the appearance of his loins and upward; and from the appearance of his loins and downward I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and there was brightness round about him. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> As the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness round about. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of Jehovah. And when I saw it, I fell upon my face, and I heard a voice of one that spake.</p>

</body>
</html>