<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of Jehovah that came unto Hosea the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When Jehovah spake at the first by Hosea, Jehovah said unto Hosea, Go, take unto thee a wife of whoredom and children of whoredom; for the land doth commit great whoredom, departing from Jehovah. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; and she conceived, and bare him a son. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jehovah said unto him, Call his name Jezreel; for yet a little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel upon the house of Jehu, and will cause the kingdom of the house of Israel to cease. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it shall come to pass at that day, that I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezreel. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she conceived again, and bare a daughter. And Jehovah said unto him, Call her name Lo-ruhamah; for I will no more have mercy upon the house of Israel, that I should in any wise pardon them. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But I will have mercy upon the house of Judah, and will save them by Jehovah their God, and will not save them by bow, nor by sword, nor by battle, by horses, nor by horsemen. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now when she had weaned Lo-ruhamah, she conceived, and bare a son. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah said, Call his name Lo-ammi; for ye are not my people, and I will not be your God. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to pass that, in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people, it shall be said unto them, Ye are the sons of the living God. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the children of Judah and the children of Israel shall be gathered together, and they shall appoint themselves one head, and shall go up from the land; for great shall be the day of Jezreel.</p>

</body>
</html>