<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear the word of Jehovah, ye children of Israel; for Jehovah hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor goodness, nor knowledge of God in the land. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> There is nought but swearing and breaking faith, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery; they break out, and blood toucheth blood. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field and the birds of the heavens; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yet let no man strive, neither let any man reprove; for thy people are as they that strive with the priest. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And thou shalt stumble in the day, and the prophet also shall stumble with thee in the night; and I will destroy thy mother. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I also will forget thy children. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As they were multiplied, so they sinned against me: I will change their glory into shame. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They feed on the sin of my people, and set their heart on their iniquity. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it shall be, like people, like priest; and I will punish them for their ways, and will requite them their doings. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they shall eat, and not have enough; they shall play the harlot, and shall not increase; because they have left off taking heed to Jehovah. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the understanding. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My people ask counsel at their stock, and their staff declareth unto them; for the spirit of whoredom hath caused them to err, and they have played the harlot, departing from under their God. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and terebinths, because the shadow thereof is good: therefore your daughters play the harlot, and your brides commit adultery. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will not punish your daughters when they play the harlot, nor your brides when they commit adultery; for the men themselves go apart with harlots, and they sacrifice with the prostitutes; and the people that doth not understand shall be overthrown. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend; and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Beth-aven, nor swear, As Jehovah liveth. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For Israel hath behaved himself stubbornly, like a stubborn heifer: now will Jehovah feed them as a lamb in a large place. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Ephraim is joined to idols; let him alone. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their drink is become sour; they play the harlot continually; her rulers dearly love shame. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The wind hath wrapped her up in its wings; and they shall be put to shame because of their sacrifices.</p>

</body>
</html>