<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he continually multiplieth lies and desolation; and they make a covenant with Assyria, and oil is carried into Egypt. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah hath also a controversy with Judah, and will punish Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he recompense him. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the womb he took his brother by the heel; and in his manhood he had power with God: <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> yea, he had power over the angel, and prevailed; he wept, and made supplication unto him: he found him at Beth-el, and there he spake with us, <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> even Jehovah, the God of hosts; Jehovah is his memorial name. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep kindness and justice, and wait for thy God continually. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He is a trafficker, the balances of deceit are in his hand: he loveth to oppress. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Ephraim said, Surely I am become rich, I have found me wealth: in all my labors they shall find in me no iniquity that were sin. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But I am Jehovah thy God from the land of Egypt; I will yet again make thee to dwell in tents, as in the days of the solemn feast. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I have also spoken unto the prophets, and I have multiplied visions; and by the ministry of the prophets have I used similitudes. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Is Gilead iniquity? they are altogether false; in Gilgal they sacrifice bullocks; yea, their altars are as heaps in the furrows of the field. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jacob fled into the field of Aram, and Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he kept sheep. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And by a prophet Jehovah brought Israel up out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ephraim hath provoked to anger most bitterly: therefore shall his blood be left upon him, and his reproach shall his Lord return unto him.</p>

</body>
</html>