<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me: and, behold, he formed locusts in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; and, lo, it was the latter growth after the king’s mowings. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass that, when they made an end of eating the grass of the land, then I said, O Lord Jehovah, forgive, I beseech thee: how shall Jacob stand? for he is small. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah repented concerning this: It shall not be, saith Jehovah. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thus the Lord Jehovah showed me: and, behold, the Lord Jehovah called to content by fire; and it devoured the great deep, and would have eaten up the land. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then said I, O Lord Jehovah, cease, I beseech thee: how shall Jacob stand? for he is small. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah repented concerning this: this also shall not be, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus he showed me: and, behold, the Lord stood beside a wall made by a plumb-line, with a plumb-line in his hand. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah said unto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A plumb-line. Then said the Lord, Behold, I will set a plumb-line in the midst of my people Israel; I will not again pass by them any more; <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Amaziah the priest of Beth-el sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of the house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For thus Amos saith, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Also Amaziah said unto Amos, O thou seer, go, flee thou away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there: <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> but prophesy not again any more at Beth-el; for it is the king’s sanctuary, and it is a royal house. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet’s son; but I was a herdsman, and a dresser of sycomore-trees: <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Jehovah took me from following the flock, and Jehovah said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now therefore hear thou the word of Jehovah: Thou sayest, Prophesy not against Israel, and drop not thy word against the house of Isaac; <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> therefore thus saith Jehovah: Thy wife shall be a harlot in the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land shall be divided by line; and thou thyself shalt die in a land that is unclean, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of his land.</p>

</body>
</html>