<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jonah 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jonah 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he prayed unto Jehovah, and said, I pray thee, O Jehovah, was not this my saying, when I was yet in my country? Therefore I hasted to flee unto Tarshish; for I knew that thou art a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and abundant in lovingkindness, and repentest thee of the evil. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore now, O Jehovah, take, I beseech thee, my life from me; for it is better for me to die than to live. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jehovah said, Doest thou well to be angry? <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth, and sat under it in the shade, till he might see what would become of the city. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah God prepared a gourd, and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head, to deliver him from his evil case. So Jonah was exceeding glad because of the gourd. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd, that it withered. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass, when the sun arose, that God prepared a sultry east wind; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted, and requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd? And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jehovah said, Thou hast had regard for the gourd, for which thou hast not labored, neither madest it grow; which came up in a night, and perished in a night: <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and should not I have regard for Nineveh, that great city, wherein are more than sixscore thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand; and also much cattle?</p>

</body>
</html>