<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I said, Hear, I pray you, ye heads of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel: is it not for you to know justice? <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> ye who hate the good, and love the evil; who pluck off their skin from off them, and their flesh from off their bones; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> who also eat the flesh of my people, and flay their skin from off them, and break their bones, and chop them in pieces, as for the pot, and as flesh within the caldron. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then shall they cry unto Jehovah, but he will not answer them; yea, he will hide his face from them at that time, according as they have wrought evil in their doings. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus saith Jehovah concerning the prophets that make my people to err; that bite with their teeth, and cry, Peace; and whoso putteth not into their mouths, they even prepare war against him: <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore it shall be night unto you, that ye shall have no vision; and it shall be dark unto you, that ye shall not divine; and the sun shall go down upon the prophets, and the day shall be black over them. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the seers shall be put to shame, and the diviners confounded; yea, they shall all cover their lips; for there is no answer of God. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But as for me, I am full of power by the Spirit of Jehovah, and of judgment, and of might, to declare unto Jacob his transgression, and to Israel his sin. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hear this, I pray you, ye heads of the house of Jacob, and rulers of the house of Israel, that abhor justice, and pervert all equity. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They build up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The heads thereof judge for reward, and the priests thereof teach for hire, and the prophets thereof divine for money: yet they lean upon Jehovah, and say, Is not Jehovah in the midst of us? no evil shall come upon us. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore shall Zion for your sake be plowed as a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house as the high places of a forest.</p>

</body>
</html>