<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye now what Jehovah saith: Arise, contend thou before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, O ye mountains, Jehovah’s controversy, and ye enduring foundations of the earth; for Jehovah hath a controversy with his people, and he will contend with Israel. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein have I wearied thee? testify against me. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of bondage; and I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab devised, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him; remember from Shittim unto Gilgal, that ye may know the righteous acts of Jehovah. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherewith shall I come before Jehovah, and bow myself before the high God? shall I come before him with burnt-offerings, with calves a year old? <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> will Jehovah be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my first-born for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath showed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth Jehovah require of thee, but to do justly, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with thy God? <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The voice of Jehovah crieth unto the city, and the man of wisdom will see thy name: hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and a scant measure that is abominable? <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall I be pure with wicked balances, and with a bag of deceitful weights? <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the rich men thereof are full of violence, and the inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore I also have smitten thee with a grievous wound; I have made thee desolate because of thy sins. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou shalt eat, but not be satisfied; and thy humiliation shall be in the midst of thee: and thou shalt put away, but shalt not save; and that which thou savest will I give up to the sword. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou shalt sow, but shalt not reap; thou shalt tread the olives, but shalt not anoint thee with oil; and the vintage, but shalt not drink the wine. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and ye walk in their counsels; that I may make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof a hissing: and ye shall bear the reproach of my people.</p>

</body>
</html>