<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nahum 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nahum 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He that dasheth in pieces is come up against thee: keep the fortress, watch the way, make thy loins strong, fortify thy power mightily. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For Jehovah restoreth the excellency of Jacob, as the excellency of Israel; for the emptiers have emptied them out, and destroyed their vine-branches. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men are in scarlet: the chariots flash with steel in the day of his preparation, and the cypress spears are brandished. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The chariots rage in the streets; they rush to and fro in the broad ways: the appearance of them is like torches; they run like the lightnings. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He remembereth his nobles: they stumble in their march; they make haste to the wall thereof, and the mantelet is prepared. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The gates of the rivers are opened, and the palace is dissolved. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it is decreed: she is uncovered, she is carried away; and her handmaids moan as with the voice of doves, beating upon their breasts. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But Nineveh hath been from of old like a pool of water: yet they flee away. Stand, stand, they cry; but none looketh back. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Take ye the spoil of silver, take the spoil of gold; for there is no end of the store, the glory of all goodly furniture. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> She is empty, and void, and waste; and the heart melteth, and the knees smite together, and anguish is in all loins, and the faces of them all are waxed pale. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Where is the den of the lions, and the feeding-place of the young lions, where the lion and the lioness walked, the lion’s whelp, and none made them afraid? <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The lion did tear in pieces enough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled his caves with prey, and his dens with ravin. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, I am against thee, saith Jehovah of hosts, and I will burn her chariots in the smoke, and the sword shall devour thy young lions; and I will cut off thy prey from the earth, and the voice of thy messengers shall no more be heard.</p>

</body>
</html>