<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these words, he said unto his disciples, <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye know that after two days the passover cometh, and the Son of man is delivered up to be crucified. <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then were gathered together the chief priests, and the elders of the people, unto the court of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas; <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and they took counsel together that they might take Jesus by subtlety, and kill him. <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they said, Not during the feast, lest a tumult arise among the people.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper, <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> there came unto him a woman having an alabaster cruse of exceeding precious ointment, and she poured it upon his head, as he sat at meat. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But when the disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste? <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But Jesus perceiving it said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? for she hath wrought a good work upon me. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For in that she poured this ointment upon my body, she did it to prepare me for burial. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, that also which this woman hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then one of the twelve, who was called Judas Iscariot, went unto the chief priests, <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and said, What are ye willing to give me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they weighed unto him thirty pieces of silver. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And from that time he sought opportunity to deliver him unto them.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now on the first day of unleavened bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Where wilt thou that we make ready for thee to eat the passover? <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, Go into the city to such a man, and say unto him, The Teacher saith, My time is at hand; I keep the passover at thy house with my disciples. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the disciples did as Jesus appointed them; and they made ready the passover.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now when even was come, he was sitting at meat with the twelve disciples; <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and as they were eating, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began to say unto him every one, Is it I, Lord? <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he answered and said, He that dipped his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. <a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The Son of man goeth, even as it is written of him: but woe unto that man through whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were it for that man if he had not been born. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Judas, who betrayed him, answered and said, Is it I, Rabbi? He saith unto him, Thou hast said.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake it; and he gave to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body. <a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he took a cup, and gave thanks, and gave to them, saying, Drink ye all of it; <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many unto remission of sins. <a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But I say unto you, I shall not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father’s kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And when they had sung a hymn, they went out unto the mount of Olives.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended in me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad. <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But after I am raised up, I will go before you into Galilee. <a id="c26_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But Peter answered and said unto him, If all shall be offended in thee, I will never be offended. <a id="c26_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, that this night, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. <a id="c26_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Peter saith unto him, Even if I must die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto his disciples, Sit ye here, while I go yonder and pray. <a id="c26_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and sore troubled. <a id="c26_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: abide ye here, and watch with me. <a id="c26_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he went forward a little, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass away from me: nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt. <a id="c26_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour? <a id="c26_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. <a id="c26_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Again a second time he went away, and prayed, saying, My Father, if this cannot pass away, except I drink it, thy will be done. <a id="c26_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he came again and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. <a id="c26_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he left them again, and went away, and prayed a third time, saying again the same words. <a id="c26_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then cometh he to the disciples, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. <a id="c26_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Arise, let us be going: behold, he is at hand that betrayeth me.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And while he yet spake, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priest and elders of the people. <a id="c26_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Now he that betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that is he: take him. <a id="c26_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And straightway he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, Rabbi; and kissed him. <a id="c26_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Jesus said unto him, Friend, do that for which thou art come. Then they came and laid hands on Jesus, and took him. <a id="c26_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And behold, one of them that were with Jesus stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and smote the servant of the high priest, and struck off his ear. <a id="c26_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Then saith Jesus unto him, Put up again thy sword into its place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. <a id="c26_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Or thinkest thou that I cannot beseech my Father, and he shall even now send me more than twelve legions of angels? <a id="c26_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> How then should the scriptures be fulfilled that thus it must be? <a id="c26_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> In that hour said Jesus to the multitudes, Are ye come out as against a robber with swords and staves to seize me? I sat daily in the temple teaching, and ye took me not. <a id="c26_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> But all this is come to pass, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left him, and fled.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And they that had taken Jesus led him away to the house of Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were gathered together. <a id="c26_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> But Peter followed him afar off, unto the court of the high priest, and entered in, and sat with the officers, to see the end. <a id="c26_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> Now the chief priests and the whole council sought false witness against Jesus, that they might put him to death; <a id="c26_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> and they found it not, though many false witnesses came. But afterward came two, <a id="c26_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> and said, This man said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days. <a id="c26_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> And the high priest stood up, and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee? <a id="c26_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> But Jesus held his peace. And the high priest said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou art the Christ, the Son of God. <a id="c26_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Jesus said unto him, Thou hast said: nevertheless I say unto you, Henceforth ye shall see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of Power, and coming on the clouds of heaven. <a id="c26_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Then the high priest rent his garments, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy: what further need have we of witnesses? behold, now ye have heard the blasphemy: <a id="c26_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> what think ye? They answered and said, He is worthy of death. <a id="c26_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Then did they spit in his face and buffet him: and some smote him with the palms of their hands, <a id="c26_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> saying, Prophesy unto us, thou Christ: who is he that struck thee?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> Now Peter was sitting without in the court: and a maid came unto him, saying, Thou also wast with Jesus the Galilaean. <a id="c26_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> But he denied before them all, saying, I know not what thou sayest. <a id="c26_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> And when he was gone out into the porch, another maid saw him, and saith unto them that were there, This man also was with Jesus of Nazareth. <a id="c26_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> And again he denied with an oath, I know not the man. <a id="c26_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> And after a little while they that stood by came and said to Peter, Of a truth thou also art one of them; for thy speech maketh thee known. <a id="c26_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> Then began he to curse and to swear, I know not the man. And straightway the cock crew. <a id="c26_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> And Peter remembered the word which Jesus had said, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out, and wept bitterly.</p>

</body>
</html>