<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass when Jesus had finished commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and preach in their cities. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now when John heard in the prison the works of the Christ, he sent by his disciples <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and said unto him, Art thou he that cometh, or look we for another? <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and tell John the things which ye hear and see: <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> the blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good tidings preached to them. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And blessed is he, whosoever shall find no occasion of stumbling in me.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And as these went their way, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness to behold? a reed shaken with the wind? <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But what went ye out to see? a man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they that wear soft raiment are in king’s houses. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But wherefore went ye out? to see a prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, Who shall prepare thy way before thee.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there hath not arisen a greater than John the Baptist: yet he that is but little in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and men of violence take it by force. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if ye are willing to receive it, this is Elijah, that is to come. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the marketplaces, who call unto their fellows <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and say, We piped unto you, and ye did not dance; we wailed, and ye did not mourn. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a demon. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold, a gluttonous man and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners! And wisdom is justified by her works.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon which were done in you, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And thou, Capernaum, shalt thou be exalted unto heaven? thou shalt go down unto Hades: for if the mighty works had been done in Sodom which were done in thee, it would have remained until this day. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But I say unto you that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for thee.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> At that season Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou didst hide these things from the wise and understanding, and didst reveal them unto babes: <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> yea, Father, for so it was well-pleasing in thy sight. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All things have been delivered unto me of my Father: and no one knoweth the Son, save the Father; neither doth any know the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son willeth to reveal him. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.</p>

</body>
</html>