<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> On that day went Jesus out of the house, and sat by the sea side. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And there were gathered unto him great multitudes, so that he entered into a boat, and sat; and all the multitude stood on the beach. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he spake to them many things in parables, saying, Behold, the sower went forth to sow; <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and as he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and the birds came and devoured them: <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and others fell upon the rocky places, where they had not much earth: and straightway they sprang up, because they had no deepness of earth: <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and when the sun was risen, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And others fell upon the thorns; and the thorns grew up and choked them: <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and others fell upon the good ground, and yielded fruit, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He that hath ears, let him hear.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the disciples came, and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables? <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he answered and said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that which he hath. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore speak I to them in parables; because seeing they see not, and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And unto them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear, and shall in no wise understand; And seeing ye shall see, and shall in no wise perceive: <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For this people’s heart is waxed gross, And their ears are dull of hearing, And their eyes they have closed; Lest haply they should perceive with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with their heart, And should turn again, And I should heal them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But blessed are your eyes, for they see; and your ears, for they hear. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For verily I say unto you, that many prophets and righteous men desired to see the things which ye see, and saw them not; and to hear the things which ye hear, and heard them not. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Hear then ye the parable of the sower. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the evil one, and snatcheth away that which hath been sown in his heart. This is he that was sown by the way side. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he that was sown upon the rocky places, this is he that heareth the word, and straightway with joy receiveth it; <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> yet hath he not root in himself, but endureth for a while; and when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, straightway he stumbleth. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he that was sown among the thorns, this is he that heareth the word; and the care of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he that was sown upon the good ground, this is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; who verily beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Another parable set he before them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man that sowed good seed in his field: <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares also among the wheat, and went away. <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But when the blade sprang up and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, didst thou not sow good seed in thy field? whence then hath it tares? <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said unto them, An enemy hath done this. And the servants say unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But he saith, Nay; lest haply while ye gather up the tares, ye root up the wheat with them. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Let both grow together until the harvest: and in the time of the harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather up first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them; but gather the wheat into my barn.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Another parable set he before them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like unto a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field: <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> which indeed is less than all seeds; but when it is grown, it is greater than the herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the heaven come and lodge in the branches thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Another parable spake he unto them; The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till it was all leavened.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> All these things spake Jesus in parables unto the multitudes; and without a parable spake he nothing unto them: <a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through the prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter things hidden from the foundation of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then he left the multitudes, and went into the house: and his disciples came unto him, saying, Explain unto us the parable of the tares of the field. <a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he answered and said, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of man; <a id="c13_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and the field is the world; and the good seed, these are the sons of the kingdom; and the tares are the sons of the evil <a id="c13_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and the enemy that sowed them is the devil: and the harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are angels. <a id="c13_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> As therefore the tares are gathered up and burned with fire; so shall it be in the end of the world. <a id="c13_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that cause stumbling, and them that do iniquity, <a id="c13_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth. <a id="c13_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. He that hath ears, let him hear.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> The kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hidden in the field; which a man found, and hid; and in his joy he goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a merchant seeking goodly pearls: <a id="c13_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> and having found one pearl of great price, he went and sold all that he had, and bought it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind: <a id="c13_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> which, when it was filled, they drew up on the beach; and they sat down, and gathered the good into vessels, but the bad they cast away. <a id="c13_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> So shall it be in the end of the world: the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked from among the righteous, <a id="c13_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> and shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Have ye understood all these things? They say unto him, Yea. <a id="c13_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And he said unto them, Therefore every scribe who hath been made a disciple to the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is a householder, who bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and old.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed thence.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And coming into his own country he taught them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works? <a id="c13_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Is not this the carpenter’s son? is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren, James, and Joseph, and Simon, and Judas? <a id="c13_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things? <a id="c13_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country, and in his own house. <a id="c13_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief.</p>

</body>
</html>