<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now late on the sabbath day, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, there was a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled away the stone, and sat upon it. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His appearance was as lightning, and his raiment white as snow: <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and for fear of him the watchers did quake, and became as dead men. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye; for I know that ye seek Jesus, who hath been crucified. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is not here; for he is risen, even as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And go quickly, and tell his disciples, He is risen from the dead; and lo, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to bring his disciples word. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and took hold of his feet, and worshipped him. <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then saith Jesus unto them, Fear not: go tell my brethren that they depart into Galilee, and there shall they see me.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now while they were going, behold, some of the guard came into the city, and told unto the chief priests all the things that were come to pass. <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave much money unto the soldiers, <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept. <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if this come to the governor’s ears, we will persuade him, and rid you of care. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying was spread abroad among the Jews, and continueth until this day.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But the eleven disciples went into Galilee, unto the mountain where Jesus had appointed them. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when they saw him, they worshipped him; but some doubted. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jesus came to them and spake unto them, saying, All authority hath been given unto me in heaven and on earth. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Go ye therefore, and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit: <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I commanded you: and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world.</p>

</body>
</html>