<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And again he began to teach by the sea side. And there is gathered unto him a very great multitude, so that he entered into a boat, and sat in the sea; and all the multitude were by the sea on the land. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he taught them many things in parables, and said unto them in his teaching, <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Hearken: Behold, the sower went forth to sow: <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and it came to pass, as he sowed, some seed fell by the way side, and the birds came and devoured it. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And other fell on the rocky ground, where it had not much earth; and straightway it sprang up, because it had no deepness of earth: <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and when the sun was risen, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And other fell among the thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And others fell into the good ground, and yielded fruit, growing up and increasing; and brought forth, thirtyfold, and sixtyfold, and a hundredfold. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said, Who hath ears to hear, let him hear. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked of him the parables. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said unto them, Unto you is given the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all things are done in parables: <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> that seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest haply they should turn again, and it should be forgiven them. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he saith unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how shall ye know all the parables? <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sower soweth the word. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; and when they have heard, straightway cometh Satan, and taketh away the word which hath been sown in them. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And these in like manner are they that are sown upon the rocky places, who, when they have heard the word, straightway receive it with joy; <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and they have no root in themselves, but endure for a while; then, when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, straightway they stumble. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And others are they that are sown among the thorns; these are they that have heard the word, <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the cares of the world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And those are they that were sown upon the good ground; such as hear the word, and accept it, and bear fruit, thirtyfold, and sixtyfold, and a hundredfold. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said unto them, Is the lamp brought to be put under the bushel, or under the bed, and not to be put on the stand? <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For there is nothing hid, save that it should be manifested; neither was anything made secret, but that it should come to light. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If any man hath ears to hear, let him hear. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with what measure ye mete it shall be measured unto you; and more shall be given unto you. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not, from him shall be taken away even that which he hath. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed upon the earth; <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and should sleep and rise night and day, and the seed should spring up and grow, he knoweth not how. <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The earth beareth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But when the fruit is ripe, straightway he putteth forth the sickle, because the harvest is come. <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he said, How shall we liken the kingdom of God? or in what parable shall we set it forth? <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown upon the earth, though it be less than all the seeds that are upon the earth, <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> yet when it is sown, groweth up, and becometh greater than all the herbs, and putteth out great branches; so that the birds of the heaven can lodge under the shadow thereof. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as they were able to hear it; <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and without a parable spake he not unto them: but privately to his own disciples he expounded all things. <a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And on that day, when even was come, he saith unto them, Let us go over unto the other side. <a id="c4_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And leaving the multitude, they take him with them, even as he was, in the boat. And other boats were with him. <a id="c4_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And there ariseth a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the boat, insomuch that the boat was now filling. <a id="c4_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he himself was in the stern, asleep on the cushion: and they awake him, and say unto him, Teacher, carest thou not that we perish? <a id="c4_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he awoke, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. <a id="c4_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he said unto them, Why are ye fearful? have ye not yet faith? <a id="c4_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, Who then is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?</p>

</body>
</html>