<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Even as it is written in Isaiah the prophet, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, Who shall prepare thy way. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make ye ready the way of the Lord, Make his paths straight; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> John came, who baptized in the wilderness and preached the baptism of repentance unto remission of sins. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And there went out unto him all the country of Judaea, and all they of Jerusalem; And they were baptized of him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And John was clothed with camel’s hair, and had a leathern girdle about his loins, and did eat locusts and wild honey. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he preached, saying, There cometh after me he that is mightier than I, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I baptized you in water; But he shall baptize you in the Holy Spirit. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in the Jordan. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens rent asunder, and the Spirit as a dove descending upon him: <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And a voice came out of the heavens, Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I am well pleased. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And straightway the Spirit driveth him forth into the wilderness. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he was in the wilderness forty days tempted of Satan; And he was with the wild beasts; And the angels ministered unto him. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now after John was delivered up, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of God, <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe in the gospel. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And passing along by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net in the sea; for they were fishers. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And straightway they left the nets, and followed him. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And going on a little further, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the boat mending the nets. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And straightway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants, and went after him. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they go into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day he entered into the synagogue and taught. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they were astonished at his teaching: For he taught them as having authority, and not as the scribes. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And straightway there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out, <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus thou Nazarene? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the unclean spirit, tearing him and crying with a loud voice, came out of him. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? a new teaching! with authority he commandeth even the unclean spirits, and they obey him. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the report of him went out straightway everywhere into all the region of Galilee round about. <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And straightway, when they were come out of the synagogue, they came into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John. <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now Simon’s wife’s mother lay sick of a fever; and straightway they tell him of her: <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and he came and took her by the hand, and raised her up; and the fever left her, and she ministered unto them. <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were sick, and them that were possessed with demons. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And all the city was gathered together at the door. <a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he healed many that were sick with divers diseases, and cast out many demons; and he suffered not the demons to speak, because they knew him. <a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And in the morning, a great while before day, he rose up and went out, and departed into a desert place, and there prayed. <a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Simon and they that were with him followed after him; <a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and they found him, and say unto him, All are seeking thee. <a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he saith unto them, Let us go elsewhere into the next towns, that I may preach there also; for to this end came I forth. <a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And he went into their synagogues throughout all Galilee, preaching and casting out demons. <a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And there cometh to him a leper, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. <a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And being moved with compassion, he stretched forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou made clean. <a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And straightway the leprosy departed from him, and he was made clean. <a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he strictly charged him, and straightway sent him out, <a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go show thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing the things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. <a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to spread abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into a city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter.</p>

</body>
</html>