<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And straightway in the morning the chief priests with the elders and scribes, and the whole council, held a consultation, and bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him up to Pilate. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answering saith unto him, Thou sayest. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the chief priests accused him of many things. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Pilate again asked him, saying, Answerest thou nothing? behold how many things they accuse thee of. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But Jesus no more answered anything; insomuch that Pilate marvelled. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now at the feast he used to release unto them one prisoner, whom they asked of him. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And there was one called Barabbas, lying bound with them that had made insurrection, men who in the insurrection had committed murder. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the multitude went up and began to ask him to do as he was wont to do unto them. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the King of the Jews? <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he perceived that for envy the chief priests had delivered him up. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the chief priests stirred up the multitude, that he should rather release Barabbas unto them. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Pilate again answered and said unto them, What then shall I do unto him whom ye call the King of the Jews? <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they cried out again, Crucify him. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out exceedingly, Crucify him. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Pilate, wishing to content the multitude, released unto them Barabbas, and delivered Jesus, when he had scourged him, to be crucified. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the soldiers led him away within the court, which is the Praetorium; and they call together the whole band. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they clothe him with purple, and platting a crown of thorns, they put it on him; <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and they began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews! <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they smote his head with a reed, and spat upon him, and bowing their knees worshipped him. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when they had mocked him, they took off from him the purple, and put on him his garments. And they lead him out to crucify him. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they compel one passing by, Simon of Cyrene, coming from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to go with them, that he might bear his cross. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, The place of a skull. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they offered him wine mingled with myrrh: but he received it not. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they crucify him, and part his garments among them, casting lots upon them, what each should take. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And it was the third hour, and they crucified him. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the superscription of his accusation was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And with him they crucify two robbers; one on his right hand, and one on his left. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, And he was reckoned with transgressors. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ha! Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> save thyself, and come down from the cross. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> In like manner also the chief priests mocking him among themselves with the scribes said, He saved others; himself he cannot save. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let the Christ, the King of Israel, now come down from the cross, that we may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reproached him. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And some of them that stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elijah. <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And one ran, and filling a sponge full of vinegar, put it on a reed, and gave him to drink, saying, Let be; let us see whether Elijah cometh to take him down. <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Jesus uttered a loud voice, and gave up the ghost. <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when the centurion, who stood by over against him, saw that he so gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God. <a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And there were also women beholding from afar: among whom were both Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, and Salome; <a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> who, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and ministered unto him; and many other women that came up with him unto Jerusalem. <a id="c15_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And when even was now come, because it was the Preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath, <a id="c15_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> there came Joseph of Arimathaea, a councillor of honorable estate, who also himself was looking for the kingdom of God; and he boldly went in unto Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. <a id="c15_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead: and calling unto him the centurion, he asked him whether he had been any while dead. <a id="c15_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And when he learned it of the centurion, he granted the corpse to Joseph. <a id="c15_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And he bought a linen cloth, and taking him down, wound him in the linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb which had been hewn out of a rock; and he rolled a stone against the door of the tomb. <a id="c15_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses beheld where he was laid.</p>

</body>
</html>