<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, bought spices, that they might come and anoint him. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And very early on the first day of the week, they come to the tomb when the sun was risen. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they were saying among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the tomb? <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and looking up, they see that the stone is rolled back: for it was exceeding great. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And entering into the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, arrayed in a white robe; and they were amazed. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he saith unto them, Be not amazed: ye seek Jesus, the Nazarene, who hath been crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold, the place where they laid him! <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But go, tell his disciples and Peter, He goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they went out, and fled from the tomb; for trembling and astonishment had come upon them: and they said nothing to any one; for they were afraid. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now when he was risen early on the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> She went and told them that had been with him, as they mourned and wept. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they, when they heard that he was alive, and had been seen of her, disbelieved. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And after these things he was manifested in another form unto two of them, as they walked, on their way into the country. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they went away and told it unto the rest: neither believed they them. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And afterward he was manifested unto the eleven themselves as they sat at meat; and he upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them that had seen him after he was risen. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to the whole creation. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that disbelieveth shall be condemned. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And these signs shall accompany them that believe: in my name shall they cast out demons; they shall speak with new tongues; <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> they shall take up serpents, and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall in no wise hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken unto them, was received up into heaven, and sat down at the right hand of God. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they went forth, and preached everywhere, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word by the signs that followed. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>