<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there are gathered together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of the scribes, who had come from Jerusalem, <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and had seen that some of his disciples ate their bread with defiled, that is, unwashen, hands. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> (For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, except they wash their hands diligently, eat not, holding the tradition of the elders; <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and when they come from the market-place, except they bathe themselves, they eat not; and many other things there are, which they have received to hold, washings of cups, and pots, and brasen vessels.) <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Pharisees and the scribes ask him, Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders, but eat their bread with defiled hands? <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said unto them, Well did Isaiah prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoreth me with their lips, But their heart is far from me. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But in vain do they worship me, Teaching as their doctrines the precepts of men.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ye leave the commandment of God, and hold fast the tradition of men. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said unto them, Full well do ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your tradition. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For Moses said, Honor thy father and thy mother; and, He that speaketh evil of father or mother, let him die the death: <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> but ye say, If a man shall say to his father or his mother, That wherewith thou mightest have been profited by me is Corban, that is to say, Given to God; <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> ye no longer suffer him to do aught for his father or his mother; <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> making void the word of God by your tradition, which ye have delivered: and many such like things ye do. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he called to him the multitude again, and said unto them, Hear me all of you, and understand: <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> there is nothing from without the man, that going into him can defile him; but the things which proceed out of the man are those that defile the man. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If any man hath ears to hear, let him hear. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when he was entered into the house from the multitude, his disciples asked of him the parable. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also? Perceive ye not, that whatsoever from without goeth into the man, <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> because it goeth not into his heart, but into his belly, and goeth out into the draught? This he said, making all meats clean. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said, That which proceedeth out of the man, that defileth the man. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For from within, out of the heart of men, evil thoughts proceed, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> covetings, wickednesses, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, railing, pride, foolishness: <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> all these evil things proceed from within, and defile the man. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And from thence he arose, and went away into the borders of Tyre and Sidon. And he entered into a house, and would have no man know it; and he could not be hid. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But straightway a woman, whose little daughter had an unclean spirit, having heard of him, came and fell down at his feet. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Now the woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by race. And she besought him that he would cast forth the demon out of her daughter. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said unto her, Let the children first be filled: for it is not meet to take the children’s bread and cast it to the dogs. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But she answered and saith unto him, Yea, Lord; even the dogs under the table eat of the children’s crumbs. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way; the demon is gone out of thy daughter. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And she went away unto her house, and found the child laid upon the bed, and the demon gone out. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And again he went out from the borders of Tyre, and came through Sidon unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the borders of Decapolis. <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech; and they beseech him to lay his hand upon him. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he took him aside from the multitude privately, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spat, and touched his tongue; <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And his ears were opened, and the bond of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal they published it. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well; he maketh even the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.</p>

</body>
</html>