<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass in those days, there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be enrolled. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> This was the first enrolment made when Quirinius was governor of Syria. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And all went to enrol themselves, every one to his own city. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and family of David; <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> to enrol himself with Mary, who was betrothed to him, being great with child. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And it came to pass, while they were there, the days were fulfilled that she should be delivered. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she brought forth her firstborn son; and she wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there were shepherds in the same country abiding in the field, and keeping watch by night over their flock. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And an angel of the Lord stood by them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the angel said unto them, Be not afraid; for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all the people: <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for there is born to you this day in the city of David a Saviour, who is Christ the Lord. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And this is the sign unto you: Ye shall find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, and lying in a manger. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Glory to God in the highest, And on earth peace among men in whom he is well pleased.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass, when the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing that is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they came with haste, and found both Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in the manger. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when they saw it, they made known concerning the saying which was spoken to them about this child. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And all that heard it wondered at the things which were spoken unto them by the shepherds. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But Mary kept all these sayings, pondering them in her heart. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, even as it was spoken unto them. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And when eight days were fulfilled for circumcising him, his name was called JESUS, which was so called by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when the days of their purification according to the law of Moses were fulfilled, they brought him up to Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> (as it is written in the law of the Lord, Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord), <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord, A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon; and this man was righteous and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel: and the Holy Spirit was upon him. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And it had been revealed unto him by the Holy Spirit, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Lord’s Christ. <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he came in the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, that they might do concerning him after the custom of the law, <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> then he received him into his arms, and blessed God, and said, <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Now lettest thou thy servant depart, Lord, According to thy word, in peace; <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, <a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Which thou hast prepared before the face of all peoples; <a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> A light for revelation to the Gentiles, And the glory of thy people Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And his father and his mother were marvelling at the things which were spoken concerning him; <a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the falling and the rising of many in Israel; and for a sign which is spoken against; <a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> yea and a sword shall pierce through thine own soul; that thoughts out of many hearts may be revealed. <a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher (she was of a great age, having lived with a husband seven years from her virginity, <a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and she had been a widow even unto fourscore and four years), who departed not from the temple, worshipping with fastings and supplications night and day. <a id="c2_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And coming up at that very hour she gave thanks unto God, and spake of him to all them that were looking for the redemption of Jerusalem. <a id="c2_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when they had accomplished all things that were according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth. <a id="c2_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the child grew, and waxed strong, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him. <a id="c2_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And his parents went every year to Jerusalem at the feast of the passover. <a id="c2_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And when he was twelve years old, they went up after the custom of the feast; <a id="c2_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> and when they had fulfilled the days, as they were returning, the boy Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and his parents knew it not; <a id="c2_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> but supposing him to be in the company, they went a day’s journey; and they sought for him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance: <a id="c2_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and when they found him not, they returned to Jerusalem, seeking for him. <a id="c2_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And it came to pass, after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both hearing them, and asking them questions: <a id="c2_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and all that heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. <a id="c2_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And when they saw him, they were astonished; and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I sought thee sorrowing. <a id="c2_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? knew ye not that I must be in my Father’s house? <a id="c2_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them. <a id="c2_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth; and he was subject unto them: and his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. <a id="c2_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And Jesus advanced in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and men.</p>

</body>
</html>