<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But on the first day of the week, at early dawn, they came unto the tomb, bringing the spices which they had prepared. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it came to pass, while they were perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in dazzling apparel: <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and as they were affrighted and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> saying that the Son of man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they remembered his words, <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and returned from the tomb, and told all these things to the eleven, and to all the rest. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now they were Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James: and the other women with them told these things unto the apostles. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And these words appeared in their sight as idle talk; and they disbelieved them. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But Peter arose, and ran unto the tomb; and stooping and looking in, he seeth the linen cloths by themselves; and he departed to his home, wondering at that which was come to pass. <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And behold, two of them were going that very day to a village named Emmaus, which was threescore furlongs from Jerusalem. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they communed with each other of all these things which had happened. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass, while they communed and questioned together, that Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said unto them, What communications are these that ye have one with another, as ye walk? And they stood still, looking sad. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And one of them, named Cleopas, answering said unto him, Dost thou alone sojourn in Jerusalem and not know the things which are come to pass there in these days? <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene, who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people: <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But we hoped that it was he who should redeem Israel. Yea and besides all this, it is now the third day since these things came to pass. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Moreover certain women of our company amazed us, having been early at the tomb; <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And certain of them that were with us went to the tomb, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said unto them, O foolish men, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken! <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Behooved it not the Christ to suffer these things, and to enter into his glory? <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And beginning from Moses and from all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. <a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they were going: and he made as though he would go further. <a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they constrained him, saying, Abide with us; for it is toward evening, and the day is now far spent. And he went in to abide with them. <a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And it came to pass, when he had sat down with them to meat, he took the bread and blessed; and breaking it he gave to them. <a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. <a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they said one to another, Was not our heart burning within us, while he spake to us in the way, while he opened to us the scriptures? <a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they rose up that very hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, <a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. <a id="c24_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they rehearsed the things that happened in the way, and how he was known of them in the breaking of the bread. <a id="c24_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as they spake these things, he himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. <a id="c24_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they beheld a spirit. <a id="c24_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and wherefore do questionings arise in your heart? <a id="c24_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye behold me having. <a id="c24_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. <a id="c24_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And while they still disbelieved for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here anything to eat? <a id="c24_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish. <a id="c24_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he took it, and ate before them. <a id="c24_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he said unto them, These are my words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must needs be fulfilled, which are written in the law of Moses, and the prophets, and the psalms, concerning me. <a id="c24_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then opened he their mind, that they might understand the scriptures; <a id="c24_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> and he said unto them, Thus it is written, that the Christ should suffer, and rise again from the dead the third day; <a id="c24_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name unto all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem. <a id="c24_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Ye are witnesses of these things. <a id="c24_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And behold, I send forth the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city, until ye be clothed with power from on high. <a id="c24_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And he led them out until they were over against Bethany: and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them. <a id="c24_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he parted from them, and was carried up into heaven. <a id="c24_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: <a id="c24_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and were continually in the temple, blessing God.</p>

</body>
</html>