<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the whole company of them rose up, and brought him before Pilate. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this man perverting our nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, and saying that he himself is Christ a king. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered him and said, Thou sayest. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Pilate said unto the chief priests and the multitudes, I find no fault in this man. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they were the more urgent, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Judaea, and beginning from Galilee even unto this place. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But when Pilate heard it, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when he knew that he was of Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent him unto Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem in these days. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was of a long time desirous to see him, because he had heard concerning him; and he hoped to see some miracle done by him. <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he questioned him in many words; but he answered him nothing. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the chief priests and the scribes stood, vehemently accusing him. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Herod with his soldiers set him at nought, and mocked him, and arraying him in gorgeous apparel sent him back to Pilate. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that very day: for before they were at enmity between themselves. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Pilate called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and said unto them, Ye brought unto me this man, as one that perverteth the people: and behold, I having examined him before you, found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse him: <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> no, nor yet Herod: for he sent him back unto us; and behold, nothing worthy of death hath been done by him. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I will therefore chastise him, and release him. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now he must needs release unto them at the feast one prisoner. <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But they cried out all together, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas: -- <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> one who for a certain insurrection made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison. <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Pilate spake unto them again, desiring to release Jesus; <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but they shouted, saying, Crucify, crucify him. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath this man done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him and release him. <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But they were urgent with loud voices, asking that he might be crucified. And their voices prevailed. <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Pilate gave sentence that what they asked for should be done. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he released him that for insurrection and murder had been cast into prison, whom they asked for; but Jesus he delivered up to their will. <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon of Cyrene, coming from the country, and laid on him the cross, to bear it after Jesus. <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And there followed him a great multitude of the people, and of women who bewailed and lamented him. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For behold, the days are coming, in which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the breasts that never gave suck. <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For if they do these things in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry? <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And there were also two others, malefactors, led with him to be put to death. <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when they came unto the place which is called The skull, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand and the other on the left. <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jesus said, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And parting his garments among them, they cast lots. <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also scoffed at him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if this is the Christ of God, his chosen. <a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, offering him vinegar, <a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and saying, If thou art the King of the Jews, save thyself. <a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And there was also a superscription over him, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS. <a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And one of the malefactors that were hanged railed on him, saying, Art not thou the Christ? save thyself and us. <a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But the other answered, and rebuking him said, Dost thou not even fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? <a id="c23_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss. <a id="c23_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And he said, Jesus, remember me when thou comest in thy kingdom. <a id="c23_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To-day shalt thou be with me in Paradise. <a id="c23_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And it was now about the sixth hour, and a darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour, <a id="c23_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> the sun’s light failing: and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst. <a id="c23_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Jesus, crying with a loud voice, said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said this, he gave up the ghost. <a id="c23_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. <a id="c23_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And all the multitudes that came together to this sight, when they beheld the things that were done, returned smiting their breasts. <a id="c23_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed with him from Galilee, stood afar off, seeing these things. <a id="c23_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And behold, a man named Joseph, who was a councillor, a good and righteous man <a id="c23_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> (he had not consented to their counsel and deed), a man of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who was looking for the kingdom of God: <a id="c23_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> this man went to Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus. <a id="c23_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And he took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid him in a tomb that was hewn in stone, where never man had yet lain. <a id="c23_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And it was the day of the Preparation, and the sabbath drew on. <a id="c23_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And the women, who had come with him out of Galilee, followed after, and beheld the tomb, and how his body was laid. <a id="c23_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments. And on the sabbath they rested according to the commandment.</p>

</body>
</html>