<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he called the twelve together, and gave them power and authority over all demons, and to cure diseases. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he sent them forth to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staff, nor wallet, nor bread, nor money; neither have two coats. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And into whatsoever house ye enter, there abide, and thence depart. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And as many as receive you not, when ye depart from that city, shake off the dust from your feet for a testimony against them. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they departed, and went throughout the villages, preaching the gospel, and healing everywhere. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done: and he was much perplexed, because that it was said by some, that John was risen from the dead; <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and by some, that Elijah had appeared; and by others, that one of the old prophets was risen again. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Herod said, John I beheaded: but who is this, about whom I hear such things? And he sought to see him. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the apostles, when they were returned, declared unto him what things they had done. And he took them, and withdrew apart to a city called Bethsaida. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the multitudes perceiving it followed him: and he welcomed them, and spake to them of the kingdom of God, and them that had need of healing he cured. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the day began to wear away; and the twelve came, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages and country round about, and lodge, and get provisions: for we are here in a desert place. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more than five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy food for all this people. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For they were about five thousand men. And he said unto his disciples, Make them sit down in companies, about fifty each. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they did so, and made them all sit down. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake; and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they ate, and were all filled: and there was taken up that which remained over to them of broken pieces, twelve baskets. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it came to pass, as he was praying apart, the disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Who do the multitudes say that I am? <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they answering said, John the Baptist; but others say, Elijah; and others, that one of the old prophets is risen again. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said unto them, But who say ye that I am? And Peter answering said, The Christ of God. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But he charged them, and commanded them to tell this to no man; <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said unto all, If any man would come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For whosoever would save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For what is a man profited, if he gain the whole world, and lose or forfeit his own self? <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in his own glory, and <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But I tell you of a truth, There are some of them that stand here, who shall in no wise taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God. <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it came to pass about eight days after these sayings, that he took with him Peter and John and James, and went up into the mountain to pray. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And as he was praying, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment became white and dazzling. <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And behold, there talked with him two men, who were Moses and Elijah; <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep: but when they were fully awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And it came to pass, as they were parting from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah: not knowing what he said. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And while he said these things, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: and they feared as they entered into the cloud. <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my Son, my chosen: hear ye him. <a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And when the voice came, Jesus was found alone. And they held their peace, and told no man in those days any of the things which they had seen. <a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And it came to pass, on the next day, when they were come down from the mountain, a great multitude met him. <a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And behold, a man from the multitude cried, saying, Teacher, I beseech thee to look upon my son; for he is mine only child: <a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and behold, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out; and it teareth him that he foameth, and it hardly departeth from him, bruising him sorely. <a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And I besought thy disciples to cast it out; and they could not. <a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you, and bear with you? bring hither thy son. <a id="c9_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And as he was yet a coming, the demon dashed him down, and tare him grievously. But Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy, and gave him back to his father. <a id="c9_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And they were all astonished at the majesty of God. But while all were marvelling at all the things which he did, he said unto his disciples, <a id="c9_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Let these words sink into your ears: for the Son of man shall be delivered up into the hands of men. <a id="c9_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But they understood not this saying, and it was concealed from them, that they should not perceive it; and they were afraid to ask him about this saying. <a id="c9_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And there arose a reasoning among them, which of them was the greatest. <a id="c9_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But when Jesus saw the reasoning of their heart, he took a little child, and set him by his side, <a id="c9_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> and said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this little child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, the same is great. <a id="c9_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out demons in thy name; and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us. <a id="c9_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that is not against you is for you. <a id="c9_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And it came to pass, when the days were well-nigh come that he should be received up, he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem, <a id="c9_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> and sent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him. <a id="c9_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he were going to Jerusalem. <a id="c9_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we bid fire to come down from heaven, and consume them? <a id="c9_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> But he turned, and rebuked them. <a id="c9_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And they went to another village. <a id="c9_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And as they went on the way, a certain man said unto him, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. <a id="c9_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And Jesus said unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the heaven have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. <a id="c9_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. <a id="c9_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> But he said unto him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead; but go thou and publish abroad the kingdom of God. <a id="c9_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And another also said, I will follow thee, Lord; but first suffer me to bid farewell to them that are at my house. <a id="c9_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> But Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plow, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.</p>

</body>
</html>