<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he entered and was passing through Jericho. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, a man called by name Zacchaeus; and he was a chief publican, and he was rich. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the crowd, because he was little of stature. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he ran on before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see him: for he was to pass that way. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to-day I must abide at thy house. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, He is gone in to lodge with a man that is a sinner. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have wrongfully exacted aught of any man, I restore fourfold. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jesus said unto him, To-day is salvation come to this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the Son of man came to seek and to save that which was lost. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was immediately to appear. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country, to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he called ten servants of his, and gave them ten pounds, and said unto them, Trade ye herewith till I come. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But his citizens hated him, and sent an ambassage after him, saying, We will not that this man reign over us. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass, when he was come back again, having received the kingdom, that he commanded these servants, unto whom he had given the money, to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by trading. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the first came before him, saying, Lord, thy pound hath made ten pounds more. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said unto him, Well done, thou good servant: because thou wast found faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the second came, saying, Thy pound, Lord, hath made five pounds. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said unto him also, Be thou also over five cities. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I kept laid up in a napkin: <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> for I feared thee, because thou art an austere man: thou takest up that which thou layedst not down, and reapest that which thou didst not sow. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He saith unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I am an austere man, taking up that which I laid not down, and reaping that which I did not sow; <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> then wherefore gavest thou not my money into the bank, and I at my coming should have required it with interest? <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he said unto them that stood by, Take away from him the pound, and give it unto him that hath the ten pounds. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds. <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I say unto you, that unto every one that hath shall be given; but from him that hath not, even that which he hath shall be taken away from him. <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But these mine enemies, that would not that I should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me. <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And when he had thus spoken, he went on before, going up to Jerusalem. <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it came to pass, when he drew nigh unto Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount that is called Olivet, he sent two of the disciples, <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> saying, Go your way into the village over against you; in which as ye enter ye shall find a colt tied, whereon no man ever yet sat: loose him, and bring him. <a id="c19_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And if any one ask you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye say, The Lord hath need of him. <a id="c19_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they that were sent went away, and found even as he had said unto them. <a id="c19_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt? <a id="c19_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And they said, The Lord hath need of him. <a id="c19_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they brought him to Jesus: and they threw their garments upon the colt, and set Jesus thereon. <a id="c19_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as he went, they spread their garments in the way. <a id="c19_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And as he was now drawing nigh, even at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works which they had seen; <a id="c19_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> saying, Blessed is the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. <a id="c19_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And some of the Pharisees from the multitude said unto him, Teacher, rebuke thy disciples. <a id="c19_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he answered and said, I tell you that, if these shall hold their peace, the stones will cry out. <a id="c19_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And when he drew nigh, he saw the city and wept over it, <a id="c19_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> saying, If thou hadst known in this day, even thou, the things which belong unto peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes. <a id="c19_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> For the days shall come upon thee, when thine enemies shall cast up a bank about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side, <a id="c19_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and shall dash thee to the ground, and thy children within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another; because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. <a id="c19_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And he entered into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold, <a id="c19_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> saying unto them, It is written, And my house shall be a house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of robbers. <a id="c19_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And he was teaching daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the principal men of the people sought to destroy him: <a id="c19_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> and they could not find what they might do; for the people all hung upon him, listening.</p>

</body>
</html>