<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Judaea, because the Jews sought to kill him. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the feast of the Jews, the feast of tabernacles, was at hand. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may behold thy works which thou doest. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For no man doeth anything in secret, and himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou doest these things, manifest thyself to the world. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For even his brethren did not believe on him. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus therefore saith unto them, My time is not yet come; but your time is always ready. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that its works are evil. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Go ye up unto the feast: I go not up unto this feast; because my time is not yet fulfilled. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And having said these things unto them, he abode still in Galilee. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But when his brethren were gone up unto the feast, then went he also up, not publicly, but as it were in secret. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Jews therefore sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he? <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And there was much murmuring among the multitudes concerning him: some said, He is a good man; others said, Not so, but he leadeth the multitude astray. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But when it was now the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The Jews therefore marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never learned? <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus therefore answered them and said, My teaching is not mine, but his that sent me. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If any man willeth to do his will, he shall know of the teaching, whether it is of God, or whether I speak from myself. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He that speaketh from himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you doeth the law? Why seek ye to kill me? <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The multitude answered, Thou hast a demon: who seeketh to kill thee? <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus answered and said unto them, I did one work, and ye all marvel because thereof. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Moses hath given you circumcision (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers); and on the sabbath ye circumcise a man. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If a man receiveth circumcision on the sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be broken; are ye wroth with me, because I made a man every whit whole on the sabbath? <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Judge not according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Some therefore of them of Jerusalem said, Is not this he whom they seek to kill? <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And lo, he speaketh openly, and they say nothing unto him. Can it be that the rulers indeed know that this is the Christ? <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when the Christ cometh, no one knoweth whence he is. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Jesus therefore cried in the temple, teaching and saying, Ye both know me, and know whence I am; and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I know him; because I am from him, and he sent me. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They sought therefore to take him: and no man laid his hand on him, because his hour was not yet come. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But of the multitude many believed on him; and they said, When the Christ shall come, will he do more signs than those which this man hath done? <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The Pharisees heard the multitude murmuring these things concerning him; and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers to take him. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Jesus therefore said, Yet a little while am I with you, and I go unto him that sent me. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, ye cannot come. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The Jews therefore said among themselves, Whither will this man go that we shall not find him? will he go unto the Dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> What is this word that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me; and where I am, ye cannot come? <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Now on the last day, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me and drink. <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, from within him shall flow rivers of living water. <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believed on him were to receive: for the Spirit was not yet given; because Jesus was not yet glorified. <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Some of the multitude therefore, when they heard these words, said, This is of a truth the prophet. <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, What, doth the Christ come out of Galilee? <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Hath not the scripture said that the Christ cometh of the seed of David, and from Bethlehem, the village where David was? <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> So there arose a division in the multitude because of him. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid hands on him. <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees; and they said unto them, Why did ye not bring him? <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The officers answered, Never a man so spake. <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> The Pharisees therefore answered them, Are ye also led astray? <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Hath any of the rulers believed on him, or of the Pharisees? <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> But this multitude that knoweth not the law are accursed. <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Nicodemus saith unto them (he that came to him before, being one of them), <a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Doth our law judge a man, except it first hear from himself and know what he doeth? <a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search, and see that out of Galilee ariseth no prophet.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And they went every man unto his own house:</p>

</body>
</html>