<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The same was in the beginning with God. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All things were made through him; and without him was not anything made that hath been made. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In him was life; and the life was the light of men. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the light shineth in the darkness; and the darkness apprehended it not. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> There came a man, sent from God, whose name was John. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The same came for witness, that he might bear witness of the light, that all might believe through him. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He was not the light, but came that he might bear witness of the light. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There was the true light, even the light which lighteth every man, coming into the world. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He was in the world, and the world was made through him, and the world knew him not. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He came unto his own, and they that were his own received him not. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But as many as received him, to them gave he the right to become children of God, even to them that believe on his name: <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> who were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us (and we beheld his glory, glory as of the only begotten from the Father), full of grace and truth. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> John beareth witness of him, and crieth, saying, This was he of whom I said, He that cometh after me is become before me: for he was before me. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For of his fulness we all received, and grace for grace. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the law was given through Moses; grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And this is the witness of John, when the Jews sent unto him from Jerusalem priests and Levites to ask him, Who art thou? <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he confessed, and denied not; and he confessed, I am not the Christ. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elijah? And he saith, I am not. Art thou the prophet? And he answered, No. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They said therefore unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said Isaiah the prophet. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they had been sent from the Pharisees. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they asked him, and said unto him, Why then baptizest thou, if thou art not the Christ, neither Elijah, neither the prophet? <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> John answered them, saying, I baptize in water: in the midst of you standeth one whom ye know not, <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> even he that cometh after me, the latchet of whose shoe I am not worthy to unloose. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> These things were done in Bethany beyond the Jordan, where John was baptizing. <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> On the morrow he seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold, the Lamb of God, that taketh away the sin of the world! <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man who is become before me: for he was before me. <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And I knew him not; but that he should be made manifest to Israel, for this cause came I baptizing in water. <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And John bare witness, saying, I have beheld the Spirit descending as a dove out of heaven; and it abode upon him. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize in water, he said unto me, Upon whomsoever thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and abiding upon him, the same is he that baptizeth in the Holy Spirit. <a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And I have seen, and have borne witness that this is the Son of God. <a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Again on the morrow John was standing, and two of his disciples; <a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and he looked upon Jesus as he walked, and saith, Behold, the Lamb of God! <a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus. <a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Jesus turned, and beheld them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye? And they said unto him, Rabbi (which is to say, being interpreted, Teacher), where abideth thou? <a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He saith unto them, Come, and ye shall see. They came therefore and saw where he abode; and they abode with him that day: it was about the tenth hour. <a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> One of the two that heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother. <a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He findeth first his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messiah (which is, being interpreted, Christ). <a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> He brought him unto Jesus. Jesus looked upon him, and said, Thou art Simon the son of John: thou shalt be called Cephas (which is by interpretation, Peter). <a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> On the morrow he was minded to go forth into Galilee, and he findeth Philip: and Jesus saith unto him, Follow me. <a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Now Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter. <a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, wrote, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. <a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Nathanael said unto him, Can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see. <a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! <a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. <a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Nathanael answered him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art King of Israel. <a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee underneath the fig tree, believest thou? thou shalt see greater things than these. <a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye shall see the heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.</p>

</body>
</html>