<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and arrayed him in a purple garment; <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and they came unto him, and said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they struck him with their hands. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Pilate went out again, and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him out to you, that ye may know that I find no crime in him. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jesus therefore came out, wearing the crown of thorns and the purple garment. And Pilate saith unto them, Behold, the man! <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When therefore the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him! Pilate saith unto them, Take him yourselves, and crucify him: for I find no crime in him. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by that law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When Pilate therefore heard this saying, he was the more afraid; <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and he entered into the Praetorium again, and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Pilate therefore saith unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? Knowest thou not that I have power to release thee, and have power to crucify thee? <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jesus answered him, Thou wouldest have no power against me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath greater sin. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Upon this Pilate sought to release him: but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou release this man, thou art not Caesar’s friend: every one that maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When Pilate therefore heard these words, he brought Jesus out, and sat down on the judgment-seat at a place called The Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now it was the Preparation of the passover: it was about the sixth hour. And he saith unto the Jews, Behold, your King! <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They therefore cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him! Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then therefore he delivered him unto them to be crucified. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They took Jesus therefore: and he went out, bearing the cross for himself, unto the place called The place of a skull, which is called in Hebrew, Golgotha: <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> where they crucified him, and with him two others, on either side one, and Jesus in the midst. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Pilate wrote a title also, and put it on the cross. And there was written, JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This title therefore read many of the Jews, for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city; and it was written in Hebrew, and in Latin, and in Greek. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The chief priests of the Jews therefore said to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Jews; but that he said, I am King of the Jews. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Pilate answered, What I have written I have written. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The soldiers therefore, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also the coat: now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They said therefore one to another, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be: that the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted my garments among them, And upon my vesture did they cast lots.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These things therefore the soldiers did. But there were standing by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother’s sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son! <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then saith he to the disciple, Behold, thy mother! And from that hour the disciple took her unto his own home. <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> After this Jesus, knowing that all things are now finished, that the scripture might be accomplished, saith, I thirst. <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> There was set there a vessel full of vinegar: so they put a sponge full of the vinegar upon hyssop, and brought it to his mouth. <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up his spirit. <a id="c19_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The Jews therefore, because it was the Preparation, that the bodies should not remain on the cross upon the sabbath (for the day of that sabbath was a high day), asked of Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. <a id="c19_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The soldiers therefore came, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other that was crucified with him: <a id="c19_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> but when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was dead already, they brake not his legs: <a id="c19_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> howbeit one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and straightway there came out blood and water. <a id="c19_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he that hath seen hath borne witness, and his witness is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye also may believe. <a id="c19_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For these things came to pass, that the scripture might be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken. <a id="c19_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And again another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom they pierced. <a id="c19_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And after these things Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked of Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus: and Pilate gave him leave. He came therefore, and took away his body. <a id="c19_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And there came also Nicodemus, he who at the first came to him by night, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds. <a id="c19_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> So they took the body of Jesus, and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as the custom of the Jews is to bury. <a id="c19_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden; and in the garden a new tomb wherein was never man yet laid. <a id="c19_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> There then because of the Jews’ Preparation (for the tomb was nigh at hand) they laid Jesus.</p>

</body>
</html>