<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jesus therefore six days before the passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, whom Jesus raised from the dead. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> So they made him a supper there: and Martha served; but Lazarus was one of them that sat at meat with him. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Mary therefore took a pound of ointment of pure nard, very precious, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, that should betray him, saith, <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred shillings, and given to the poor? <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now this he said, not because he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and having the bag took away what was put therein. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus therefore said, Suffer her to keep it against the day of my burying. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the poor ye have always with you; but me ye have not always. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The common people therefore of the Jews learned that he was there: and they came, not for Jesus’ sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the chief priests took counsel that they might put Lazarus also to death; <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> On the morrow a great multitude that had come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> took the branches of the palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried out, Hosanna: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, even the King of Israel. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jesus, having found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written, <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Fear not, daughter of Zion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass’s colt. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The multitude therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb, and raised him from the dead, bare witness. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For this cause also the multitude went and met him, for that they heard that he had done this sign. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Behold how ye prevail nothing: lo, the world is gone after him. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now there were certain Greeks among those that went up to worship at the feast: <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> these therefore came to Philip, who was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and asked him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: Andrew cometh, and Philip, and they tell Jesus. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus answereth them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified. <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a grain of wheat fall into the earth and die, it abideth by itself alone; but if it die, it beareth much fruit. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He that loveth his life loseth it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal. <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him will the Father honor. <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this cause came I unto this hour. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Father, glorify thy name. There came therefore a voice out of heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again. <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The multitude therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it had thundered: others said, An angel hath spoken to him. <a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Jesus answered and said, This voice hath not come for my sake, but for your sakes. <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out. <a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto myself. <a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But this he said, signifying by what manner of death he should die. <a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The multitude therefore answered him, We have heard out of the law that the Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man? <a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jesus therefore said unto them, Yet a little while is the light among you. Walk while ye have the light, that darkness overtake you not: and he that walketh in the darkness knoweth not whither he goeth. <a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> While ye have the light, believe on the light, that ye may become sons of light. These things spake Jesus, and he departed and hid himself from them. <a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But though he had done so many signs before them, yet they believed not on him: <a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> that the word of Isaiah the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? And to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For this cause they could not believe, for that Isaiah said again, <a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He hath blinded their eyes, and he hardened their heart; Lest they should see with their eyes, and perceive with their heart, And should turn, And I should heal them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> These things said Isaiah, because he saw his glory; and he spake of him. <a id="c12_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Nevertheless even of the rulers many believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess it, lest they should be put out of the synagogue: <a id="c12_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> for they loved the glory that is of men more than the glory that is of God. <a id="c12_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me. <a id="c12_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And he that beholdeth me beholdeth him that sent me. <a id="c12_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me may not abide in the darkness. <a id="c12_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And if any man hear my sayings, and keep them not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world. <a id="c12_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my sayings, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I spake, the same shall judge him in the last day. <a id="c12_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> For I spake not from myself; but the Father that sent me, he hath given me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak. <a id="c12_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And I know that his commandment is life eternal: the things therefore which I speak, even as the Father hath said unto me, so I speak.</p>

</body>
</html>