<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when we were escaped, then we knew that the island was called Melita. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the barbarians showed us no common kindness; for they kindled a fire, and received us all, because of the present rain, and because of the cold. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out by reason of the heat, and fastened on his hand. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the barbarians saw the venomous creature hanging from his hand, they said one to another, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he hath escaped from the sea, yet Justice hath not suffered to live. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Howbeit he shook off the creature into the fire, and took no harm. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But they expected that he would have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but when they were long in expectation and beheld nothing amiss came to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received us, and entertained us three days courteously. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it was so, that the father of Publius lay sick of fever and dysentery: unto whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and laying his hands on him healed him. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when this was done, the rest also that had diseases in the island came, and were cured: <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> who also honored us with many honors; and when we sailed, they put on board such things as we needed. <a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And after three months we set sail in a ship of Alexandria which had wintered in the island, whose sign was The Twin Brothers. <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And touching at Syracuse, we tarried there three days. <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And from thence we made a circuit, and arrived at Rhegium: and after one day a south wind sprang up, and on the second day we came to Puteoli; <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> where we found brethren, and were entreated to tarry with them seven days: and so we came to Rome. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And from thence the brethren, when they heard of us, came to meet us as far as The Market of Appius and The Three Taverns; whom when Paul saw, he thanked God, and took courage. <a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when we entered into Rome, Paul was suffered to abide by himself with the soldier that guarded him. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass, that after three days he called together those that were the chief of the Jews: and when they were come together, he said unto them, I, brethren, though I had done nothing against the people, or the customs of our fathers, yet was delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans: <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> who, when they had examined me, desired to set me at liberty, because there was no cause of death in me. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal unto Caesar; not that I had aught whereof to accuse my nation. <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For this cause therefore did I entreat you to see and to speak with me: for because of the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain. <a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they said unto him, We neither received letters from Judaea concerning thee, nor did any of the brethren come hither and report or speak any harm of thee. <a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, it is known to us that everywhere it is spoken against. <a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when they had appointed him a day, they came to him into his lodging in great number; to whom he expounded the matter, testifying the kingdom of God, and persuading them concerning Jesus, both from the law of Moses and from the prophets, from morning till evening. <a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And some believed the things which were spoken, and some disbelieved. <a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed after that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Spirit through Isaiah the prophet unto your fathers, <a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> saying, Go thou unto this people, and say, By hearing ye shall hear, and shall in no wise understand; And seeing ye shall see, and shall in no wise perceive: <a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For this people’s heart is waxed gross, And their ears are dull of hearing, And their eyes they have closed; Lest, haply they should perceive with their eyes, And hear with their ears, And understand with their heart, And should turn again, And I should heal them.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Be it known therefore unto you, that this salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles: they will also hear. <a id="c28_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, having much disputing among themselves. <a id="c28_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he abode two whole years in his own hired dwelling, and received all that went in unto him, <a id="c28_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching the things concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness, none forbidding him.</p>

</body>
</html>