<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now about that time Herod the king put forth his hands to afflict certain of the church. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he killed James the brother of John with the sword. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded to seize Peter also. And those were the days of unleavened bread. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when he had taken him, he put him in prison, and delivered him to four quaternions of soldiers to guard him; intending after the Passover to bring him forth to the people. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Peter therefore was kept in the prison: but prayer was made earnestly of the church unto God for him. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when Herod was about to bring him forth, the same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and guards before the door kept the prison. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shined in the cell: and he smote Peter on the side, and awoke him, saying, Rise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thy sandals. And he did so. And he saith unto him, Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he went out, and followed; and he knew not that it was true which was done by the angel, but thought he saw a vision. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when they were past the first and the second guard, they came unto the iron gate that leadeth into the city; which opened to them of its own accord: and they went out, and passed on through one street; and straightway the angel departed from him. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a truth, that the Lord hath sent forth his angel and delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John whose surname was Mark; where many were gathered together and were praying. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when he knocked at the door of the gate, a maid came to answer, named Rhoda. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when she knew Peter’s voice, she opened not the gate for joy, but ran in, and told that Peter stood before the gate. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they said unto her, Thou art mad. But she confidently affirmed that it was even so. And they said, It is his angel. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Peter continued knocking: and when they had opened, they saw him, and were amazed. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But he, beckoning unto them with the hand to hold their peace, declared unto them how the Lord had brought him forth out of the prison. And he said, Tell these things unto James, and to the brethren. And he departed, and went to another place. <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the soldiers, what was become of Peter. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when Herod had sought for him, and found him not, he examined the guards, and commanded that they should be put to death. And he went down from Judaea to Caesarea, and tarried there. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now he was highly displeased with them of Tyre and Sidon: and they came with one accord to him, and, having made Blastus the king’s chamberlain their friend, they asked for peace, because their country was fed from the king’s country. <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And upon a set day Herod arrayed himself in royal apparel, and sat on the throne, and made an oration unto them. <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the people shouted, saying, The voice of a god, and not of a man. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And immediately an angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not God the glory: and he was eaten of worms, and gave up the ghost. <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But the word of God grew and multiplied. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, when they had fulfilled their ministration, taking with them John whose surname was Mark.</p>

</body>
</html>