<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now in these days, when the number of the disciples was multiplying, there arose a murmuring of the Grecian Jews against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not fit that we should forsake the word of God, and serve tables. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Look ye out therefore, brethren, from among you seven men of good report, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But we will continue stedfastly in prayer, and in the ministry of the word. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolaus a proselyte of Antioch; <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> whom they set before the apostles: and when they had prayed, they laid their hands upon them. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem exceedingly; and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Stephen, full of grace and power, wrought great wonders and signs among the people. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But there arose certain of them that were of the synagogue called the synagogue of the Libertines, and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of them of Cilicia and Asia, disputing with Stephen. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they were not able to withstand the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spake. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then they suborned men, who said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses, and against God. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon him, and seized him, and brought him into the council, <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and set up false witnesses, who said, This man ceaseth not to speak words against this holy place, and the law: <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered unto us. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And all that sat in the council, fastening their eyes on him, saw his face as it had been the face of an angel.</p>

</body>
</html>