<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Saul was consenting unto his death. And there arose on that day a great persecution against the church which was in Jerusalem; and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and Samaria, except the apostles. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And devout men buried Stephen, and made great lamentation over him. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But Saul laid waste the church, entering into every house, and dragging men and women committed them to prison. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They therefore that were scattered abroad, went about preaching the word. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and proclaimed unto them the Christ. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the multitudes gave heed with one accord unto the things that were spoken by Philip, when they heard, and saw the signs which he did. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For from many of those that had unclean spirits, they came out, crying with a loud voice: and many that were palsied, and that were lame, were healed. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there was much joy in that city. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But there was a certain man, Simon by name, who beforetime in the city used sorcery, and amazed the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one: <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> to whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is that power of God which is called Great. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they gave heed to him, because that of long time he had amazed them with his sorceries. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But when they believed Philip preaching good tidings concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Simon also himself believed: and being baptized, he continued with Philip; and beholding signs and great miracles wrought, he was amazed. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now when the apostles that were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John: <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Spirit: <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for as yet it was fallen upon none of them: only they had been baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now when Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles’ hands the Holy Spirit was given, he offered them money, <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay my hands, he may receive the Holy Spirit. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But Peter said unto him, Thy silver perish with thee, because thou hast thought to obtain the gift of God with money. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter: for thy heart is not right before God. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray the Lord, if perhaps the thought of thy heart shall be forgiven thee. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I see that thou art in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Simon answered and said, Pray ye for me to the Lord, that none of the things which ye have spoken come upon me. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They therefore, when they had testified and spoken the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But an angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza: the same is desert. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he arose and went: and behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure, who had come to Jerusalem to worship; <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and he was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself to this chariot. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Philip ran to him, and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest? <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he said, How can I, except some one shall guide me? And he besought Philip to come up and sit with him. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now the passage of the Scripture which he was reading was this, He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; And as a lamb before his shearer is dumb, So he openeth not his mouth: <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> In his humiliation his judgment was taken away: His generation who shall declare? For his life is taken from the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other? <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this Scripture, preached unto him Jesus. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as they went on the way, they came unto a certain water; and the eunuch saith, Behold, here is water; what doth hinder me to be baptized? <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Philip said, If thou believest with all thy heart, thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they both went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him. <a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip; and the eunuch saw him no more, for he went on his way rejoicing. <a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preached the gospel to all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.</p>

</body>
</html>