<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And certain men came down from Judaea and taught the brethren, saying, Except ye be circumcised after the custom of Moses, ye cannot be saved. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and questioning with them, the brethren appointed that Paul and Barnabas, and certain other of them, should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and elders about this question. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They therefore, being brought on their way by the church, passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and they caused great joy unto all the brethren. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received of the church and the apostles and the elders, and they rehearsed all things that God had done with them. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees who believed, saying, It is needful to circumcise them, and to charge them to keep the law of Moses. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the apostles and the elders were gathered together to consider of this matter. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when there had been much questioning, Peter rose up, and said unto them, Brethren, ye know that a good while ago God made choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel, and believe. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And God, who knoweth the heart, bare them witness, giving them the Holy Spirit, even as he did unto us; <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and he made no distinction between us and them, cleansing their hearts by faith. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now therefore why make ye trial of God, that ye should put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear? <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But we believe that we shall be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, in like manner as they. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And all the multitude kept silence; and they hearkened unto Barnabas and Paul rehearsing what signs and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles through them. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And after they had held their peace, James answered, saying, Brethren, hearken unto me: <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Symeon hath rehearsed how first God visited the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written, <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> After these things I will return, And I will build again the tabernacle of David, which is fallen; And I will build again the ruins thereof, And I will set it up: <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> That the residue of men may seek after the Lord, And all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Saith the Lord, who maketh these things known from of old.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Wherefore my judgment is, that we trouble not them that from among the Gentiles turn to God; <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> but that we write unto them, that they abstain from the pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from what is strangled, and from blood. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For Moses from generations of old hath in every city them that preach him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose men out of their company, and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas; namely, Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, chief men among the brethren: <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and they wrote thus by them, The apostles and the elders, brethren, unto the brethren who are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia, greeting: <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Forasmuch as we have heard that certain who went out from us have troubled you with words, subverting your souls; to whom we gave no commandment; <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> it seemed good unto us, having come to one accord, to choose out men and send them unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who themselves also shall tell you the same things by word of mouth. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things: <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> that ye abstain from things sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication; from which if ye keep yourselves, it shall be well with you. Fare ye well. <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> So they, when they were dismissed, came down to Antioch; and having gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And when they had read it, they rejoiced for the consolation. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Judas and Silas, being themselves also prophets, exhorted the brethren with many words, and confirmed them. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And after they had spent some time there, they were dismissed in peace from the brethren unto those that had sent them forth. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But it seemed good unto Silas to abide there. <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But Paul and Barnabas tarried in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also. <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And after some days Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us return now and visit the brethren in every city wherein we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they fare. <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Barnabas was minded to take with them John also, who was called Mark. <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But Paul thought not good to take with them him who withdrew from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And there arose a sharp contention, so that they parted asunder one from the other, and Barnabas took Mark with him, and sailed away unto Cyprus; <a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> but Paul choose Silas, and went forth, being commended by the brethren to the grace of the Lord. <a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.</p>

</body>
</html>