<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> There is therefore now no condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus made me free from the law of sin and of death. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh: <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> that the ordinance of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For they that are after the flesh mind the things of the flesh; but they that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the mind of the flesh is death; but the mind of the Spirit is life and peace: <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> because the mind of the flesh is enmity against God; for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can it be: <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and they that are in the flesh cannot please God. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But ye are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. But if any man hath not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the spirit is life because of righteousness. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwelleth in you, he that raised up Christ Jesus from the dead shall give life also to your mortal bodies through his Spirit that dwelleth in you. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So then, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh: <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for if ye live after the flesh, ye must die; but if by the Spirit ye put to death the deeds of the body, ye shall live. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For ye received not the spirit of bondage again unto fear; but ye received the spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The Spirit himself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are children of God: <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified with him. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed to us-ward. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the earnest expectation of the creation waiteth for the revealing of the sons of God. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the creation was subjected to vanity, not of its own will, but by reason of him who subjected it, in hope <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that the creation itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the liberty of the glory of the children of God. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And not only so, but ourselves also, who have the first-fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for [our] adoption, [to wit], the redemption of our body. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For in hope were we saved: but hope that is seen is not hope: for who hopeth for that which he seeth? <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But if we hope for that which we see not, then do we with patience wait for it. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And in like manner the Spirit also helpeth our infirmity: for we know not how to pray as we ought; but the Spirit himself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered; <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to [the will of] God. <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And we know that to them that love God all things work together for good, even to them that are called according to [his] purpose. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For whom he foreknew, he also foreordained to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren: <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and whom he foreordained, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified. <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not also with him freely give us all things? <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Who shall lay anything to the charge of God’s elect? It is God that justifieth; <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> who is he that condemneth? It is Christ Jesus that died, yea rather, that was raised from the dead, who is at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or anguish, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword? <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Even as it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; We were accounted as sheep for the slaughter. <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, <a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>