<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But him that is weak in faith receive ye, yet not for decision of scruples. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> One man hath faith to eat all things: but he that is weak eateth herbs. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let not him that eateth set at nought him that eateth not; and let not him that eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath received him. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who art thou that judgest the servant of another? to his own lord he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be made to stand; for the Lord hath power to make him stand. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day alike. Let each man be fully assured in his own mind. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord: and he that eateth, eateth unto the Lord, for he giveth God thanks; and he that eateth not, unto the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For none of us liveth to himself, and none dieth to himself. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; or whether we die, we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord’s. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For to this end Christ died and lived again, that he might be Lord of both the dead and the living. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But thou, why dost thou judge thy brother? or thou again, why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment-seat of God. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, to me every knee shall bow, And every tongue shall confess to God.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So then each one of us shall give account of himself to God. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge ye this rather, that no man put a stumblingblock in his brother’s way, or an occasion of falling. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I know, and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean of itself: save that to him who accounteth anything to be unclean, to him it is unclean. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For if because of meat thy brother is grieved, thou walkest no longer in love. Destroy not with thy meat him for whom Christ died. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let not then your good be evil spoken of: <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he that herein serveth Christ is well-pleasing to God, and approved of men. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So then let us follow after things which make for peace, and things whereby we may edify one another. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Overthrow not for meat’s sake the work of God. All things indeed are clean; howbeit it is evil for that man who eateth with offence. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is good not to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor to do anything whereby thy brother stumbleth. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The faith which thou hast, have thou to thyself before God. Happy is he that judgeth not himself in that which he approveth. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he that doubteth is condemned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith; and whatsoever is not of faith is sin.</p>

</body>
</html>