<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wherefore thou art without excuse, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest: for wherein thou judges another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest dost practise the same things. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And we know that the judgment of God is according to truth against them that practise such things. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And reckonest thou this, O man, who judgest them that practise such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up for thyself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God; <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who will render to every man according to his works: <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> to them that by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and incorruption, eternal life: <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but unto them that are factious, and obey not the truth, but obey unrighteousness, shall be wrath and indignation, <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that worketh evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek; <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but glory and honor and peace to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek: <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for there is no respect of persons with God. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without the law: and as many as have sinned under the law shall be judged by the law; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified: <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> (for when Gentiles that have not the law do by nature the things of the law, these, not having the law, are the law unto themselves; <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> in that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness therewith, and their thoughts one with another accusing or else excusing them); <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men, according to my gospel, by Jesus Christ. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if thou bearest the name of a Jew, and restest upon the law, and gloriest in God, <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and knowest his will, and approvest the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law, <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them that are in darkness, <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> a corrector of the foolish, a teacher of babes, having in the law the form of knowledge and of the truth; <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> thou therefore that teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal? <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou rob temples? <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> thou who gloriest in the law, through thy transgression of the law dishonorest thou God? <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, even as it is written. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For circumcision indeed profiteth, if thou be a doer of the law: but if thou be a transgressor of the law, thy circumcision is become uncircumcision. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If therefore the uncircumcision keep the ordinances of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be reckoned for circumcision? <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and shall not the uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who with the letter and circumcision art a transgressor of the law? <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh: <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter; whose praise is not of men, but of God.</p>

</body>
</html>