<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience bearing witness with me in the Holy Spirit, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that I have great sorrow and unceasing pain in my heart. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I could wish that I myself were anathema from Christ for my brethren’s sake, my kinsmen according to the flesh: <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who are Israelites; whose is the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the service of God, and the promises; <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> whose are the fathers, and of whom is Christ as concerning the flesh, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But it is not as though the word of God hath come to nought. For they are not all Israel, that are of Israel: <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> neither, because they are Abraham’s seed, are they all children: but, In Isaac shall thy seed be called. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> That is, it is not the children of the flesh that are children of God; but the children of the promise are reckoned for a seed. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this is a word of promise, According to this season will I come, and Sarah shall have a son. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And not only so; but Rebecca also having conceived by one, even by our father Isaac-- <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for the children being not yet born, neither having done anything good or bad, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that calleth, <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> it was said unto her, The elder shall serve the younger. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Even as it is written, Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that hath mercy. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the scripture saith unto Pharaoh, For this very purpose did I raise thee up, that I might show in thee my power, and that my name might be published abroad in all the earth. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So then he hath mercy on whom he will, and whom he will be hardeneth. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he still find fault? For who withstandeth his will? <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why didst thou make me thus? <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Or hath not the potter a right over the clay, from the same lump to make one part a vessel unto honor, and another unto dishonor? <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> What if God, willing to show his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much longsuffering vessels of wrath fitted unto destruction: <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and that he might make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy, which he afore prepared unto glory, <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> even us, whom he also called, not from the Jews only, but also from the Gentiles? <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As he saith also in Hosea, I will call that my people, which was not my people; And her beloved, that was not beloved. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And it shall be, that in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people, There shall they be called sons of the living God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Isaiah crieth concerning Israel, If the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, it is the remnant that shall be saved: <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> for the Lord will execute his word upon the earth, finishing it and cutting it short. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And, as Isaiah hath said before, Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us a seed, We had become as Sodom, and had been made like unto Gomorrah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, who followed not after righteousness, attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith: <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> but Israel, following after a law of righteousness, did not arrive at that law. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by works. They stumbled at the stone of stumbling; <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> even as it is written, Behold, I lay in Zion a stone of stumbling and a rock of offence: And he that believeth on him shall not be put to shame.</p>

</body>
</html>