<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philemon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philemon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon our beloved and fellow-worker, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and to Apphia our sister, and to Archippus our fellow-soldier, and to the church in thy house: <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I thank my God always, making mention of thee in my prayers, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> hearing of thy love, and of the faith which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all the saints; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that the fellowship of thy faith may become effectual, in the knowledge of every good thing which is in you, unto Christ. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For I had much joy and comfort in thy love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed through thee, brother. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wherefore, though I have all boldness in Christ to enjoin thee that which is befitting, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> yet for love’s sake I rather beseech, being such a one as Paul the aged, and now a prisoner also of Christ Jesus: <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I beseech thee for my child, whom I have begotten in my bonds, Onesimus, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> who once was unprofitable to thee, but now is profitable to thee and to me: <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> whom I have sent back to thee in his own person, that is, my very heart: <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> whom I would fain have kept with me, that in thy behalf he might minister unto me in the bonds of the gospel: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but without thy mind I would do nothing; that thy goodness should not be as of necessity, but of free will. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For perhaps he was therefore parted from thee for a season, that thou shouldest have him for ever; <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> no longer as a servant, but more than a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much rather to thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If then thou countest me a partner, receive him as myself. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But if he hath wronged thee at all, or oweth thee aught, put that to mine account; <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I Paul write it with mine own hand, I will repay it: that I say not unto thee that thou owest to me even thine own self besides. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my heart in Christ. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Having confidence in thine obedience I write unto thee, knowing that thou wilt do even beyond what I say. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I hope that through your prayers I shall be granted unto you. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Epaphras, my fellow-prisoner in Christ Jesus, saluteth thee; <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and so do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow-workers. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>