<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now faith is assurance of things hoped for, a conviction of things not seen. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For therein the elders had witness borne to them. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> By faith we understand that the worlds have been framed by the word of God, so that what is seen hath not been made out of things which appear. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he had witness borne to him that he was righteous, God bearing witness in respect of his gifts: and through it he being dead yet speaketh. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and he was not found, because God translated him: for he hath had witness borne to him that before his translation he had been well-pleasing unto God: <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And without faith it is impossible to be well-pleasing unto him; for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> By faith Noah, being warned of God concerning things not seen as yet, moved with godly fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; through which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> By faith Abraham, when he was called, obeyed to go out unto a place which he was to receive for an inheritance; and he went out, not knowing whither he went. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By faith he became a sojourner in the land of promise, as in a land not his own, dwelling in tents, with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise: <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for he looked for the city which hath the foundations, whose builder and maker is God. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By faith even Sarah herself received power to conceive seed when she was past age, since she counted him faithful who had promised: <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> wherefore also there sprang of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the sand, which is by the sea-shore, innumerable. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For they that say such things make it manifest that they are seeking after a country of their own. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And if indeed they had been mindful of that country from which they went out, they would have had opportunity to return. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he hath prepared for them a city. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> By faith Abraham, being tried, offered up Isaac: yea, he that had gladly received the promises was offering up his only begotten <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> even he to whom it was said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called: <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> accounting that God is able to raise up, even from the dead; from whence he did also in a figure receive him back. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau, even concerning things to come. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> By faith Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> By faith Joseph, when his end was nigh, made mention of the departure of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw he was a goodly child; and they were not afraid of the king’s commandment. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh’s daughter; <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> choosing rather to share ill treatment with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season; <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> accounting the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt: for he looked unto the recompense of reward. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king: for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> By faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the firstborn should not touch them. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were swallowed up. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they had been compassed about for seven days. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> By faith Rahab the harlot perished not with them that were disobedient, having received the spies with peace. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And what shall I more say? for the time will fail me if I tell of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah; of David and Samuel and the prophets: <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, from weakness were made strong, waxed mighty in war, turned to flight armies of aliens. <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Women received their dead by a resurrection: and others were tortured, not accepting their deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection: <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and others had trial of mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment: <a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> they were stoned, they were sawn asunder, they were tempted, they were slain with the sword: they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, ill-treated <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> (of whom the world was not worthy), wandering in deserts and mountains and caves, and the holes of the earth. <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And these all, having had witness borne to them through their faith, received not the promise, <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> God having provided some better thing concerning us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect.</p>

</body>
</html>