<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of a heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, even Jesus; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also was Moses in all his house. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For he hath been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, by so much as he that built the house hath more honor than the house. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For every house is builded by some one; but he that built all things is God. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were afterward to be spoken; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but Christ as a son, over his house; whose house are we, if we hold fast our boldness and the glorying of our hope firm unto the end. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore, even as the Holy Spirit saith, To-day if ye shall hear his voice, <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, Like as in the day of the trial in the wilderness, <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Where your fathers tried me by proving me, And saw my works forty years. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wherefore I was displeased with this generation, And said, They do always err in their heart: But they did not know my ways; <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Take heed, brethren, lest haply there shall be in any one of you an evil heart of unbelief, in falling away from the living God: <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> but exhort one another day by day, so long as it is called To-day; lest any one of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin: <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for we are become partakers of Christ, if we hold fast the beginning of our confidence firm unto the end: <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> while it is said, To-day if ye shall hear his voice, Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For who, when they heard, did provoke? nay, did not all they that came out of Egypt by Moses? <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And with whom was he displeased forty years? was it not with them that sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness? <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that were disobedient? <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And we see that they were not able to enter in because of unbelief.</p>

</body>
</html>