<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of God Most High, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him, <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to whom also Abraham divided a tenth part of all (being first, by interpretation, King of righteousness, and then also King of Salem, which is King of peace; <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like unto the Son of God), abideth a priest continually. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now consider how great this man was, unto whom Abraham, the patriarch, gave a tenth out of the chief spoils. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they indeed of the sons of Levi that receive the priest’s office have commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though these have come out of the loins of Abraham: <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but he whose genealogy is not counted from them hath taken tithes of Abraham, and hath blessed him that hath the promises. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But without any dispute the less is blessed of the better. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And here men that die receive tithes; but there one, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And, so to say, through Abraham even Levi, who receiveth tithes, hath paid tithes; <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchizedek met him. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now if there was perfection through the Levitical priesthood (for under it hath the people received the law), what further need <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessity a change also of the law. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For he of whom these things are said belongeth to another tribe, from which no man hath given attendance at the altar. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For it is evident that our Lord hath sprung out of Judah; as to which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priests. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And what we say is yet more abundantly evident, if after the likeness of Melchizedek there ariseth another priest, <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> who hath been made, not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life: <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for it is witnessed of him, Thou art a priest for ever After the order of Melchizedek.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For there is a disannulling of a foregoing commandment because of its weakness and unprofitableness <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> (for the law made nothing perfect), and a bringing in thereupon of a better hope, through which we draw nigh unto God. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And inasmuch as it is not without the taking of an oath <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> (for they indeed have been made priests without an oath; but he with an oath by him that saith of him, The Lord sware and will not repent himself, Thou art a priest for ever);</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> by so much also hath Jesus become the surety of a better covenant. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they indeed have been made priests many in number, because that by death they are hindered from continuing: <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but he, because he abideth for ever, hath his priesthood unchangeable. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Wherefore also he is able to save to the uttermost them that draw near unto God through him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For such a high priest became us, holy, guileless, undefiled, separated from sinners, and made higher than the heavens; <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> who needeth not daily, like those high priests, to offer up sacrifices, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people: for this he did once for all, when he offered up himself. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the law appointeth men high priests, having infirmity; but the word of the oath, which was after the law, appointeth a Son, perfected for evermore.</p>

</body>
</html>