<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be not many of you teachers, my brethren, knowing that we shall receive heavier judgment. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For in many things we all stumble. If any stumbleth not in word, the same is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body also. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now if we put the horses’ bridles into their mouths that they may obey us, we turn about their whole body also. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, the ships also, though they are so great and are driven by rough winds, are yet turned about by a very small rudder, whither the impulse of the steersman willeth. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So the tongue also is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how much wood is kindled by how small a fire! <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the tongue is a fire: the world of iniquity among our members is the tongue, which defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the wheel of nature, and is set on fire by hell. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For every kind of beasts and birds, of creeping things and things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed by mankind. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But the tongue can no man tame; it is a restless evil, it is full of deadly poison. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therewith bless we the Lord and Father; and therewith curse we men, who are made after the likeness of God: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> out of the same mouth cometh forth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Doth the fountain send forth from the same opening sweet water and bitter? <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Can a fig tree, my brethren, yield olives, or a vine figs? Neither can salt water yield sweet. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who is wise and understanding among you? let him show by his good life his works in meekness of wisdom. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But if ye have bitter jealousy and faction in your heart, glory not and lie not against the truth. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> This wisdom is not a wisdom that cometh down from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For where jealousy and faction are, there is confusion and every vile deed. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without variance, without hypocrisy. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace for them that make peace.</p>

</body>
</html>