<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elders among you I exhort, who am a fellow-elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, who am also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Tend the flock of God which is among you, exercising the oversight, not of constraint, but willingly, according to the will of God; nor yet for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind; <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> neither as lording it over the charge allotted to you, but making yourselves ensamples to the flock. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the chief Shepherd shall be manifested, ye shall receive the crown of glory that fadeth not away. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Likewise, ye younger, be subject unto the elder. Yea, all of you gird yourselves with humility, to serve one another: for God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time; <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> casting all your anxiety upon him, because he careth for you. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be sober, be watchful: your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour, <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> whom withstand stedfast in your faith, knowing that the same sufferings are accomplished in your brethren who are in the world. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the God of all grace, who called you unto his eternal glory in Christ, after that ye have suffered a little while, shall himself perfect, establish, strengthen you. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> To him be the dominion for ever and ever. Amen. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By Silvanus, our faithful brother, as I account him, I have written unto you briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God. Stand ye fast therein. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> She that is in Babylon, elect together with you, saluteth you; and so doth Mark my son. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Salute one another with a kiss of love. Peace be unto you all that are in Christ.</p>

</body>
</html>