<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In like manner, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that, even if any obey not the word, they may without the word be gained by the behavior of their wives; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> beholding your chaste behavior coupled with fear. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Whose adorning let it not be the outward adorning of braiding the hair, and of wearing jewels of gold, or of putting on apparel; <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but let it be the hidden man of the heart, in the incorruptible apparel of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For after this manner aforetime the holy women also, who hoped in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands: <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose children ye now are, if ye do well, and are not put in fear by any terror. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ye husbands, in like manner, dwell with your wives according to knowledge, giving honor unto the woman, as unto the weaker vessel, as being also joint-heirs of the grace of life; to the end that your prayers be not hindered. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Finally, be ye all likeminded, compassionate, loving as brethren, tenderhearted, humbleminded: <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> not rendering evil for evil, or reviling for reviling; but contrariwise blessing; for hereunto were ye called, that ye should inherit a blessing. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For, He that would love life, And see good days, Let him refrain his tongue from evil, And his lips that they speak no guile: <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And let him turn away from evil, and do good; Let him seek peace, and pursue it. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, And his ears unto their supplication: But the face of the Lord is upon them that do evil.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And who is he that will harm you, if ye be zealous of that which is good? <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But even if ye should suffer for righteousness’ sake, blessed are ye: and fear not their fear, neither be troubled; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> but sanctify in your hearts Christ as Lord: being ready always to give answer to every man that asketh you a reason concerning the hope that is in you, yet with meekness and fear: <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> having a good conscience; that, wherein ye are spoken against, they may be put to shame who revile your good manner of life in Christ. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For it is better, if the will of God should so will, that ye suffer for well-doing than for evil-doing. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Because Christ also suffered for sins once, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God; being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit; <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> in which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison, <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> that aforetime were disobedient, when the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved through water: <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> which also after a true likeness doth now save you, even baptism, not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the interrogation of a good conscience toward God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> who is on the right hand of God, having gone into heaven; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him.</p>

</body>
</html>