<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Putting away therefore all wickedness, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> as newborn babes, long for the spiritual milk which is without guile, that ye may grow thereby unto salvation; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> if ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious: <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> unto whom coming, a living stone, rejected indeed of men, but with God elect, precious, <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> ye also, as living stones, are built up a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Because it is contained in scripture, Behold, I lay in Zion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: And he that believeth on him shall not be put to shame.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For you therefore that believe is the preciousness: but for such as disbelieve, The stone which the builders rejected, The same was made the head of the corner;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and, A stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence; for they stumble at the word, whereunto also they were appointed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But ye are a elect race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God’s own possession, that ye may show forth the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvellous light: <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> who in time past were no people, but now are the people of God: who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Beloved, I beseech you as sojourners and pilgrims, to abstain from fleshly lust, which war against the soul; <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> having your behavior seemly among the Gentiles; that, wherein they speak against you as evil-doers, they may by your good works, which they behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be subject to every ordinance of man for the Lord’s sake: whether to the king, as supreme; <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> or unto governors, as sent by him for vengeance on evil-doers and for praise to them that do well. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For so is the will of God, that by well-doing ye should put to silence the ignorance of foolish men: <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> as free, and not using your freedom for a cloak of wickedness, but as bondservants of God. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Honor all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the king. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Servants, be in subjection to your masters with all fear; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For this is acceptable, if for conscience toward God a man endureth griefs, suffering wrongfully. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For what glory is it, if, when ye sin, and are buffeted for it, ye shall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well, and suffer for it, ye shall take it patiently, this is acceptable with God. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, that ye should follow his steps: <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth: <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> who, when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered threatened not; but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously: <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> who his own self bare our sins in his body upon the tree, that we, having died unto sins, might live unto righteousness; by whose stripes ye were healed. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For ye were going astray like sheep; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.</p>

</body>
</html>