<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 John 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 John 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called children of God; and such we are. For this cause the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beloved, now are we children of God, and it is not yet made manifest what we shall be. We know that, if he shall be manifested, we shall be like him; for we shall see him even as he is. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And every one that hath this hope set on him purifieth himself, even as he is pure. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Every one that doeth sin doeth also lawlessness; and sin is lawlessness. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And ye know that he was manifested to take away sins; and in him is no sin. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither knoweth him. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> My little children, let no man lead you astray: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous: <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> he that doeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. To this end was the Son of God manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whosoever is begotten of God doeth no sin, because his seed abideth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is begotten of God. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For this is the message which ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another: <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> not as Cain was of the evil one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his works were evil, and his brother’s righteous. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Marvel not, brethren, if the world hateth you. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not abideth in death. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hereby know we love, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But whoso hath the world’s goods, and beholdeth his brother in need, and shutteth up his compassion from him, how doth the love of God abide in him? <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> My Little children, let us not love in word, neither with the tongue; but in deed and truth. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hereby shall we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our heart before him: <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> because if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, we have boldness toward God; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and whatsoever we ask we receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do the things that are pleasing in his sight. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And this is his commandment, that we should believe in the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, even as he gave us commandment. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he that keepeth his commandments abideth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he gave us.</p>

</body>
</html>