<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth; and not I only, but also all they that know the truth; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for the truth’s sake which abideth in us, and it shall be with us for ever: <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace, mercy, peace shall be with us, from God the Father, and from Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I rejoice greatly that I have found certain of thy children walking in truth, even as we received commandment from the Father. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote to thee a new commandment, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And this is love, that we should walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, even as ye heard from the beginning, that ye should walk in it. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For many deceivers are gone forth into the world, even they that confess not that Jesus Christ cometh in the flesh. This is the deceiver and the antichrist. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Look to yourselves, that ye lose not the things which we have wrought, but that ye receive a full reward. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whosoever goeth onward and abideth not in the teaching of Christ, hath not God: he that abideth in the teaching, the same hath both the Father and the Son. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If any one cometh unto you, and bringeth not this teaching, receive him not into your house, and give him no greeting: <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for he that giveth him greeting partaketh in his evil works. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Having many things to write unto you, I would not write them with paper and ink: but I hope to come unto you, and to speak face to face, that your joy may be made full. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The children of thine elect sister salute thee.</p>

</body>
</html>