<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>3 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>3 John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elder unto Gaius the beloved, whom I love in truth. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beloved, I pray that in all things thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I rejoiced greatly, when brethren came and bare witness unto thy truth, even as thou walkest in truth. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Greater joy have I none than this, to hear of my children walking in the truth. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Beloved, thou doest a faithful work in whatsoever thou doest toward them that are brethren and strangers withal; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who bare witness to thy love before the church: whom thou wilt do well to set forward on their journey worthily of God: <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> because that for the sake of the Name they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> We therefore ought to welcome such, that we may be fellow-workers for the truth. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I wrote somewhat unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, if I come, I will bring to remembrance his works which he doeth, prating against us with wicked words: and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and them that would he forbiddeth and casteth them out of the church. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Beloved, imitate not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: he that doeth evil hath not seen God. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Demetrius hath the witness of all men, and of the truth itself: yea, we also bear witness: and thou knowest that our witness is true. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I had many things to write unto thee, but I am unwilling to write them to thee with ink and pen: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but I hope shortly to see thee, and we shall speak face to face. Peace be unto thee. The friends salute thee. Salute the friends by name.</p>

</body>
</html>