<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the back, close sealed with seven seals. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a great voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof? <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And no one in the heaven, or on the earth, or under the earth, was able to open the book, or to look thereon. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open the book, or to look thereon: <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not; behold, the Lion that is of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, hath overcome to open the book and the seven seals thereof. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I saw in the midst of the throne and of the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, having seven horns, and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he came, and he taketh it out of the right hand of him that sat on the throne. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having each one a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they sing a new song, saying,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and madest them to be unto our God a kingdom and priests; and they reign upon earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I saw, and I heard a voice of many angels round about the throne and the living creatures and the elders; and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands; <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> saying with a great voice,Worthy is the Lamb that hath been slain to receive the power, and riches, and wisdom, and might and honor, and glory, and blessing.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And every created thing which is in the heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and on the sea, and all things are in them, heard I saying,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped.</p>

</body>
</html>