<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his brethren, and turned in to a man of Adullam whose name was Hirah. <a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Judah saw there the daughter of a Canaanitish man whose name was Shua; and he took her, and went in to her. <a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And she conceived and bore a son; and he called his name Er. <a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And she again conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Onan. <a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And again she bore a son, and she called his name Shelah; and he was at Chezib when she bore him. <a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, and her name was Tamar. <a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of Jehovah, and Jehovah slew him. <a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Judah said to Onan, Go in to thy brother's wife, and fulfil to her the brother-in-law's duty, and raise up seed to thy brother. <a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But when Onan knew that the seed should not be his own, it came to pass when he went in to his brother's wife, that he spilled it on the ground, in order to give no seed to his brother. <a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the thing which he did was evil in the sight of Jehovah, and he slew him also. <a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Judah said to Tamar his daughter-in-law, Remain a widow in thy father's house, until Shelah my son is grown; for he said, Lest he die also, as his brethren. And Tamar went and remained in her father's house.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And as the days were multiplied, Judah's wife, the daughter of Shua, died. And Judah was comforted, and he went up to his sheep-shearers, to Timnah, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite. <a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep. <a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And she put the garments of her widowhood off from her, and covered herself with a veil, and wrapped herself, and sat in the entry of Enaim, which is on the way to Timnah; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was not given to him as wife. <a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Judah saw her, and took her for a harlot; because she had covered her face. <a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he turned aside to her by the way, and said, Come, I pray thee, let me go in to thee; for he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come in to me? <a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said, I will send thee a kid of the goats from the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, until thou send it? <a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet, and thy lace, and thy staff which is in thy hand. And he gave it her, and went in to her; and she conceived by him. <a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And she arose and went away; and she laid by her veil from her, and put on the garments of her widowhood. <a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Judah sent the kid of the goats by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive the pledge from the woman's hand; but he found her not. <a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he asked the men of her place, saying, Where is the prostitute that was at Enaim, by the way-side? And they said, There was no prostitute here. <a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he returned to Judah, and said, I have not found her; and also the men of the place said, No prostitute has been here. <a id="c38_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then Judah said, Let her take it for herself, lest we be put to shame. Behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter-in-law has committed fornication, and behold, she is also with child by fornication. And Judah said, Bring her forth, that she may be burned. <a id="c38_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When she was brought forth, she sent to her father-in-law, saying, By the man to whom these belong am I with child; and she said, Acknowledge, I pray thee, whose are this signet, and this lace, and this staff. <a id="c38_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She is more righteous than I, because I have not given her to Shelah my son. And he knew her again no more. <a id="c38_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it came to pass at the time of her delivery, that behold, twins were in her womb. <a id="c38_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it came to pass when she brought forth, that one stretched out his hand, and the midwife took it and bound round his hand a scarlet thread, saying, This came out first. <a id="c38_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it came to pass as he drew back his hand, that behold, his brother came out; and she said, How hast thou broken forth! on thee be the breach! And they called his name Pherez. <a id="c38_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And afterwards came out his brother, round whose hand was the scarlet thread; and they called his name Zerah.</p>

</body>
</html>