<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Abraham took another wife named Keturah. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And she bore him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jokshan begot Sheba and Dedan; and the sons of Dedan were the Asshurim, and the Letushim, and the Leummim. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the sons of Midian were Ephah, and Epher, and Enoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these were sons of Keturah. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And to the sons of the concubines that Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts, and, while he yet lived, sent them away from Isaac his son, eastward to the east country. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived: a hundred and seventy-five years. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Abraham expired and died in a good old age, old and full of days; and was gathered to his peoples. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which was opposite to Mamre-- <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> the field that Abraham had purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> blessed his son Isaac. And Isaac dwelt at Beer-lahai-roi. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's bondwoman, bore to Abraham. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael by their names according to their generations: Nebaioth, the firstborn of Ishmael; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam, <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Hadad and Tema, Jetur, Naphish and Kedmah. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, in their hamlets and their encampments--twelve princes of their peoples. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And these are the years of the life of Ishmael: a hundred and thirty-seven years; and he expired and died, and was gathered to his peoples. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they dwelt from Havilah to Shur, which is opposite to Egypt, as one goes towards Assyria. He settled before the face of all his brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son. Abraham begot Isaac. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebecca as wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padan-Aram, the sister of Laban the Syrian. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Isaac entreated Jehovah for his wife, because she was barren; and Jehovah was entreated of him, and Rebecca his wife conceived. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to inquire of Jehovah. <a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jehovah said to her, Two nations are in thy womb, And two peoples shall be separated from thy bowels; And one people shall be stronger than the other people, And the elder shall serve the younger. <a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the first came out red--all over like a hairy garment; and they called his name Esau. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And after that came his brother out; and his hand took hold of Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob. And Isaac was sixty years old when they were born. <a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the boys grew, and Esau became a man skilled in hunting, a man of the field; and Jacob was a homely man, dwelling in tents. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Isaac loved Esau, because venison was to his taste; and Rebecca loved Jacob.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jacob had cooked a dish; and Esau came from the field, and he was faint. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with the red--the red thing there, for I am faint. Therefore was his name called Edom. <a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Jacob said, Sell me now thy birthright. <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Esau said, Behold, I am going to die, and of what use can the birthright be to me? <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Jacob said, Swear unto me now. And he swore unto him, and sold his birthright to Jacob. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jacob gave Esau bread and the dish of lentils; and he ate and drank, and rose up and went away. Thus Esau despised the birthright.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>