<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the whole earth had one language, and the same words. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and dwelt there. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they said one to another, Come on, let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and they had asphalt for mortar. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they said, Come on, let us build ourselves a city and a tower, the top of which may reach to the heavens; and let us make ourselves a name, lest we be scattered over the face of the whole earth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah came down to see the city and the tower which the children of men built. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah said, Behold, the people is one, and have all one language; and this have they begun to do. And now will they be hindered in nothing that they meditate doing. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Come, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah scattered them thence over the face of the whole earth. And they left off building the city. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore was its name called Babel; because Jehovah there confounded the language of the whole earth. And Jehovah scattered them thence over the face of the whole earth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> These are the generations of Shem. Shem was a hundred years old, and begot Arphaxad two years after the flood. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Shem lived after he had begotten Arphaxad five hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Arphaxad lived thirty-five years, and begot Shelah. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Arphaxad lived after he had begotten Shelah four hundred and three years, and begot sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Shelah lived thirty years, and begot Eber. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Shelah lived after he had begotten Eber four hundred and three years, and begot sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Eber lived thirty-four years, and begot Peleg. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Eber lived after he had begotten Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Peleg lived thirty years, and begot Reu. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Peleg lived after he had begotten Reu two hundred and nine years, and begot sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Reu lived thirty-two years, and begot Serug. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Reu lived after he had begotten Serug two hundred and seven years, and begot sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Serug lived thirty years, and begot Nahor. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Serug lived after he had begotten Nahor two hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Nahor lived twenty-nine years, and begot Terah. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Nahor lived after he had begotten Terah a hundred and nineteen years, and begot sons and daughters. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Terah lived seventy years, and begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And these are the generations of Terah: Terah begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begot Lot. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Haran died before the face of his father Terah in the land of his nativity at Ur of the Chaldeans. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Abram and Nahor took wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, a daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah and the father of Iscah. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Sarai was barren: she had no child. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's son, and Sarai his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth together out of Ur of the Chaldeans, to go into the land of Canaan, and came as far as Haran, and dwelt there. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years; and Terah died in Haran.</p>

</body>
</html>