<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Man knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bore Cain, and said, I have acquired a man with Jehovah. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And she further bore his brother Abel. And Abel was a shepherd, but Cain was a husbandman.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And in process of time it came to pass that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering to Jehovah. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock, and of their fat. And Jehovah looked upon Abel, and on his offering; <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and upon Cain, and on his offering, he did not look. And Cain was very angry, and his countenance fell.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah said to Cain, Why art thou angry, and why is thy countenance fallen? <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If thou doest well, will not thy countenance look up with confidence? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door; and unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Cain spoke to Abel his brother, and it came to pass when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah said to Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not: am I my brother's keeper? <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now be thou cursed from the ground, which hath opened its mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield thee its strength; a wanderer and fugitive shalt thou be on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Cain said to Jehovah, My punishment is too great to be borne. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, thou hast driven me this day from the face of the ground, and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a wanderer and fugitive on the earth; and it will come to pass, that every one who finds me will slay me. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jehovah said to him, Therefore, whoever slayeth Cain, it shall be revenged sevenfold. And Jehovah set a mark on Cain, lest any finding him should smite him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Cain went out from the presence of Jehovah, and dwelt in the land of Nod, toward the east of Eden. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. And he built a city; and he called the name of the city after the name of his son Enoch. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And to Enoch was born Irad; and Irad begot Mehujael; and Mehujael begot Methushael; and Methushael begot Lemech.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Lemech took two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the second, Zillah. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Adah bore Jabal: he was the father of those who dwell in tents, and breed cattle. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of those who handle the harp and pipe. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Zillah, she also bore Tubal-Cain, the forger of every kind of tool of brass and iron. And the sister of Tubal-Cain was Naamah.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Lemech said to his wives: Adah and Zillah, hear my voice, Ye wives of Lemech, listen to my speech. For I have slain a man for my wound, and a youth for my bruise. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If Cain shall be avenged seven-fold; Lemech seventy and seven fold.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son, and called his name Seth: ...For God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> has appointed me another seed instead of Abel, because Cain has slain him. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And to Seth, to him also was born a son; and he called his name Enosh. Then people began to call on the name of Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>