<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Sarai Abram's wife did not bear him children. And she had an Egyptian maidservant; and her name was Hagar. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Sarai said to Abram, Behold now, Jehovah has shut me up, that I do not bear. Go in, I pray thee, to my maidservant: it may be that I shall be built up by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar, the Egyptian, her maidservant, at the end of ten years that Abram had dwelt in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram, as his wife.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was lightly esteemed in her eyes. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Sarai said to Abram, My wrong be on thee! I have given my maidservant into thy bosom; and now she sees that she has conceived, I am lightly esteemed in her eyes. Jehovah judge between me and thee! <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Abram said to Sarai, Behold, thy maidservant is in thy hand: do to her what is good in thine eyes. And Sarai oppressed her; and she fled from her face.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the Angel of Jehovah found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, by the spring on the way to Shur. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maidservant, whence comest thou? and whither art thou going? And she said, I am fleeing from the face of my mistress Sarai. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the Angel of Jehovah said to her, Return to thy mistress, and submit thyself under her hands.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Angel of Jehovah said to her, I will multiply thy seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Angel of Jehovah said to her, Behold, thou art with child, and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael, because Jehovah hath hearkened to thy affliction. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he will be a wild-ass of a man, his hand against every man, and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell before the face of all his brethren. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And she called the name of Jehovah who spoke to her, Thou art the ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> who reveals himself, for she said, Also here have I seen after he has revealed himself. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore the well was named Beer-lahai-roi: behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Hagar bore Abram a son; and Abram called the name of his son whom Hagar bore, Ishmael. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>