<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah said to Noah, Go into the ark, thou and all thy house; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Of all clean beasts thou shalt take to thee by sevens, a male and its female; but of the beasts that are not clean two, a male and its female. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also of the fowl of the heavens by sevens, male and female; to keep seed alive on the face of all the earth. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For in yet seven days I will cause it to rain on the earth forty days and forty nights; and every living being which I have made will I destroy from the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Noah did according to all that Jehovah had commanded him. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was on the earth. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowl, and of everything that creeps on the ground, <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> there came two and two unto Noah into the ark, male and female, as God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> had commanded Noah. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And it came to pass after seven days that the waters of the flood were on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that same day all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the pour of rain was on the earth forty days and forty nights.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> On the same day went Noah, and Shem and Ham and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, into the ark; <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> they, and every beast after its kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after its kind, and all fowl after its kind--every bird of every wing. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they went to Noah, into the ark, two and two of all flesh, in which was the breath of life. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they that came, came male and female of all flesh, as God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> had commanded him. And Jehovah shut him in.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the flood was forty days on the earth. And the waters increased, and bore up the ark; and it was lifted up above the earth. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the waters prevailed and increased greatly on the earth; and the ark went on the face of the waters. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the waters prevailed exceedingly on the earth; and all the high mountains that are under all the heavens were covered. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Fifteen cubits upward the waters prevailed; and the mountains were covered.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And all flesh that moved on the earth expired, fowl as well as cattle, and beasts, and all crawling things which crawl on the earth, and all mankind: <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> everything which had in its nostrils the breath of life, of all that was on the dry land, died. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And every living being was destroyed that was on the ground, both man, and cattle, and creeping things, and fowl of the heavens; and they were destroyed from the earth. And Noah alone remained, and what was with him in the ark. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the waters prevailed on the earth a hundred and fifty days.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>