<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, towards the south. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he went on his journeys from the south as far as Bethel; as far as the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai; <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to the place of the altar that he had made there at the first. And there Abram called on the name of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Lot also who went with Abram had flocks, and herds, and tents. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the land could not support them, that they might dwell together, for their property was great; and they could not dwell together. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's cattle and the herdsmen of Lot's cattle. And the Canaanite and the Perizzite were dwelling then in the land. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Abram said to Lot, I pray thee let there be no contention between me and thee, and between my herdsmen and thy herdsmen, for we are brethren. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is not the whole land before thee? Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me: if to the left, then I will take the right; and if to the right, then I will take the left.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of the Jordan that it was thoroughly watered, before Jehovah had destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah; as the garden of Jehovah, like the land of Egypt, as one goes to Zoar. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Lot chose for himself all the plain of the Jordan; and Lot went toward the east. And they separated the one from the other: <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan; and Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain, and pitched tents as far as Sodom. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the people of Sodom were wicked, and great sinners before Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jehovah said to Abram, after that Lot had separated himself from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art, northward and southward and eastward and westward; <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for all the land that thou seest will I give to thee, and to thy seed for ever. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth, so that if any one can number the dust of the earth, thy seed also will be numbered. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Arise, walk through the land according to the length of it and according to the breadth of it; for I will give it to thee. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Abram moved his tents, and came and dwelt by the oaks of Mamre, which are in Hebron. And he built there an altar to Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>