<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 44</h2>

<p><a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he commanded him who was over his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry; and put every man's money in the mouth of his sack. <a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, and his grain-money. And he did according to the word of Joseph which he had spoken. <a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the morning, when it was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses. <a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They were gone out of the city, and not yet far off, when Joseph said to him who was over his house, Up! follow after the men; and when thou overtakest them, thou shalt say to them, Why have ye rewarded evil for good? <a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Is not this it in which my lord drinks, and in which indeed he divines? Ye have done evil in what ye have done. <a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he overtook them, and he spoke to them these words. <a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they said to him, Why does my lord speak such words as these? Far be it from thy servants to do such a thing! <a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, the money that we found in our sacks' mouths we have brought again to thee from the land of Canaan; and how should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold? <a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With whomsoever of thy servants it is found, let him die; and we also will be my lord's bondmen. <a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he said, Now also let it be according to your words: let him with whom it is found be my bondman, but ye shall be blameless. <a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they hasted and laid down every man his sack on the ground, and opened every man his sack. <a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he searched carefully: he began at the eldest, and ended at the youngest; and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. <a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then they rent their clothes, and loaded every man his ass, and they returned to the city. <a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; and he was still there; and they fell down before him to the ground. <a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Joseph said to them, What deed is this which ye have done? Did ye not know that such a man as I can certainly divine? <a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Judah said, What shall we say to my lord? what shall we speak, and how justify ourselves? God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> has found out the iniquity of thy servants; behold, we are my lord's bondmen, both we, and he in whose hand the cup has been found. <a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said, Far be it from me to do so! The man in whose hand the cup has been found, he shall be my bondman; but as for you, go up in peace to your father.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Judah came near to him, and said, Ah! my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant; for thou art even as Pharaoh. <a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother? <a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And we said to my lord, We have an aged father, and a child born to him in his old age, yet young; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother; and his father loves him. <a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down to me, that I may set mine eye on him. <a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And we said to my lord, The youth cannot leave his father: if he should leave his father, his father would die. <a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And thou saidst to thy servants, Unless your youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more. <a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it came to pass when we came up to thy servant my father, we told him the words of my lord. <a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And our father said, Go again, buy us a little food. <a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down; for we cannot see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us. <a id="c44_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And thy servant my father said to us, Ye know that my wife bore me two sons; <a id="c44_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and the one went out from me, and I said, He must certainly have been torn in pieces; and I have not seen him again hitherto. <a id="c44_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And if ye take this one also from me, and mischief should befall him, ye will bring down my grey hairs with misery to Sheol. <a id="c44_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And now, when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad is not with us, --seeing that his life is bound up with his life, <a id="c44_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> it will come to pass when he sees that the lad is not there, that he will die; and thy servants will bring down the grey hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to Sheol. <a id="c44_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For thy servant became surety for the lad to my father, saying, If I bring him not to thee, then I shall be guilty toward my father all my days. <a id="c44_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And now, let thy servant stay, I pray thee, instead of the lad a bondman to my lord, and let the lad go up with his brethren; <a id="c44_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> for how should I go up to my father if the lad were not with me? --lest I see the evil that would come on my father.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>