<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, and Jacob said to his sons, Why do ye look one upon another? <a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down thither and buy grain for us from thence, in order that we may live, and not die. <a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy grain out of Egypt. <a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren; for he said, Lest mischief may befall him. <a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So the sons of Israel came to buy grain among those that came; for the famine was in the land of Canaan. <a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Joseph, he was the governor over the land--he it was that sold the corn to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brethren came and bowed down to him, the face to the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Joseph saw his brethren, and knew them; but he made himself strange to them, and spoke roughly to them, and said to them, Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan, to buy food. <a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Joseph knew his brethren, but they did not know him. <a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Joseph remembered the dreams that he had dreamt of them; and he said to them, Ye are spies: to see the exposed places of the land ye are come. <a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they said to him, No, my lord; but to buy food are thy servants come. <a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> We are all one man's sons; we are honest: thy servants are not spies. <a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he said to them, No; but to see the exposed places of the land are ye come. <a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they said, Thy servants were twelve brethren, sons of one man, in the land of Canaan; and behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is not. <a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Joseph said to them, That is it that I have spoken to you, saying, Ye are spies. <a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By this ye shall be put to the proof: as Pharaoh lives, ye shall not go forth hence, unless your youngest brother come hither! <a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Send one of you, that he may fetch your brother, but ye shall be imprisoned, and your words shall be put to the proof, whether the truth is in you; and if not, as Pharaoh lives, ye are spies. <a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he put them in custody three days. <a id="c42_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Joseph said to them the third day, This do, that ye may live: I fear God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c42_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If ye are honest, let one of your brethren remain bound in the house of your prison, but go ye, carry grain for the hunger of your households; <a id="c42_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and bring your youngest brother to me, in order that your words be verified, and that ye may not die. And they did so.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then they said one to another, We are indeed guilty concerning our brother, whose anguish of soul we saw when he besought us, and we did not hearken; therefore this distress is come upon us. <a id="c42_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Reuben answered them, saying, Did I not speak to you, saying, Do not sin against the lad? But ye did not hearken; and now behold, his blood also is required. <a id="c42_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they did not know that Joseph understood, for the interpreter was between them. <a id="c42_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he turned away from them, and wept. And he returned to them, and spoke to them, and took Simeon from among them, and bound him before their eyes. <a id="c42_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Joseph gave orders to fill their vessels with corn, and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way. And thus did they to them. <a id="c42_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they loaded their asses with their grain, and departed thence. <a id="c42_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And one of them opened his sack to give his ass food in the inn, and saw his money, and behold, it was in the mouth of his sack. <a id="c42_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said to his brethren, My money is returned to me, and behold, it is even in my sack. And their heart failed them, and they were afraid, saying one to another, What is this that God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> has done to us?</p>

<p><a id="c42_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they came into the land of Canaan, to Jacob their father, and told him all that had befallen them, saying, <a id="c42_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The man, the lord of the land, spoke roughly to us, and treated us as spies of the land. <a id="c42_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And we said to him, We are honest; we are not spies: <a id="c42_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> we are twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan. <a id="c42_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the man, the lord of the land, said to us, Hereby shall I know that ye are honest: leave one of your brethren with me, and take for the hunger of your households, and go, <a id="c42_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and bring your youngest brother to me, and I shall know that ye are not spies, but are honest. Your brother will I give up to you; and ye may trade in the land. <a id="c42_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that behold, every man had his bundle of money in his sack; and they saw their bundles of money, they and their father, and were afraid. <a id="c42_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Jacob their father said to them, Ye have bereaved me of children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin! All these things are against me. <a id="c42_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Reuben spoke to his father, saying, Slay my two sons if I bring him not back to thee: give him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again. <a id="c42_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But he said, My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he alone is left; and if mischief should befall him by the way in which ye go, then would ye bring down my grey hairs with sorrow to Sheol.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>