<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, See, I have made thee God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> to Pharaoh; and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou shalt speak all that I command thee; and Aaron thy brother shall speak unto Pharaoh, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I will render Pharaoh's heart obdurate, and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Pharaoh will not hearken unto you; and I will lay my hand upon Egypt, and bring forth my hosts, my people, the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah, when I stretch forth my hand on Egypt, and bring out the children of Israel from among them. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses and Aaron did as Jehovah had commanded them: so did they. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron was eighty-three years old, when they spoke to Pharaoh.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When Pharaoh shall speak to you, saying, Do a miracle for yourselves, --then thou shalt say unto Aaron, Take thy staff and cast it before Pharaoh--it will become a serpent. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh, and did so, as Jehovah had commanded; and Aaron cast down his staff before Pharaoh, and before his bondmen, and it became a serpent. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Pharaoh also called the sages and the sorcerers; and they too, the scribes of Egypt, did so with their enchantments: <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> they cast down every man his staff, and they became serpents; but Aaron's staff swallowed up their staves. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Pharaoh's heart was stubborn, and he hearkened not to them, as Jehovah had said.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hardened: he refuseth to let the people go. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Go unto Pharaoh in the morning--behold, he will go out unto the water--and take thy stand by the bank of the river in front of him; and take in thy hand the staff that was turned into a serpent. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And say unto him, Jehovah the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of the Hebrews has sent me to thee, saying, Let my people go, that they may serve me in the wilderness; but behold, hitherto thou hast not hearkened. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thus saith Jehovah: In this shalt thou know that I am Jehovah--behold, I will smite with the staff that is in my hand upon the water which is in the river, and it shall be turned into blood. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the fish that is in the river shall die; and the river shall stink; and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink the water out of the river. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, Say unto Aaron, Take thy staff, and stretch out thy hand upon the waters of the Egyptians--upon their streams, upon their rivers, and upon their ponds, and upon all their reservoirs of water, that they may become blood; and there shall be blood throughout the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Moses and Aaron did so, as Jehovah had commanded; and he lifted up the staff, and smote the waters that were in the river before the eyes of Pharaoh, and before the eyes of his bondmen; and all the waters that were in the river were turned into blood. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the fish that was in the river died; and the river stank, and the Egyptians could not drink the water of the river; and the blood was throughout the land of Egypt. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the scribes of Egypt did so with their sorceries; and Pharaoh's heart was stubborn, neither did he hearken to them, as Jehovah had said. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, and took not this to heart either. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And all the Egyptians dug round about the river for water to drink; for they could not drink of the water of the river. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And seven days were fulfilled, after Jehovah had smitten the river.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>