<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And thou shalt make the altar of acacia-wood, five cubits the length, and five cubits the breadth; the altar shall be square; and the height thereof three cubits. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And thou shalt make its horns at the four corners thereof; its horns shall be of itself; and thou shalt overlay it with copper. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt make its pots to cleanse it of the fat, its shovels, and its bowls, and its forks, and its firepans; for all the utensils thereof thou shalt employ copper. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou shalt make for it a grating of network of copper; and on the net shalt thou make four copper rings at its four corners; <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and thou shalt put it under the ledge of the altar beneath, and the net shall be to the very middle of the altar. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of acacia-wood, and overlay them with copper. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And its staves shall be put into the rings, that the staves may be on both sides of the altar, when it is carried. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it hath been shewn thee on the mountain, so shall they make it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle. On the south side, southward, hangings for the court of twined byssus; a hundred cubits the length for the one side, <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the twenty pillars thereof, and their twenty bases of copper, the hooks of the pillars and their connecting-rods of silver. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And likewise on the north side in length, hangings a hundred cubits long, and its twenty pillars, and their twenty bases of copper; the hooks of the pillars and their connecting-rods of silver. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> --And the breadth of the court on the west side, hangings of fifty cubits; their pillars ten, and their bases ten. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> --And the breadth of the court on the east side, eastward, fifty cubits; <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> the hangings on the one wing, of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their bases three. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And on the other wing hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their bases three. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> --And for the gate of the court a curtain of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined byssus, embroidered with needlework; their pillars four, and their bases four. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the pillars of the court round about shall be fastened together with rods of silver; their hooks of silver, and their bases of copper. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty everywhere, and the height five cubits of twined byssus; and their bases of copper. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All the utensils of the tabernacle for the service thereof and all the pegs thereof, and all the pegs of the court shall be of copper.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee olive oil, pure, beaten, for the light, to light the lamp continually. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In the tent of meeting outside the veil, which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall dress them from evening to morning before Jehovah: it is an everlasting statute, for their generations, on the part of the children of Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>