<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every man that was wise-hearted, in whom Jehovah had put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all manner of work of the service of the sanctuary--according to all that Jehovah had commanded. <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every man that was wise-hearted, in whose heart God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> had put wisdom, every one whose heart moved him to come to the work to do it. <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they took from Moses every heave-offering that the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it. And they still brought him voluntary offerings morning by morning. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And all the wise men that wrought all the work of the sanctuary came, every man from his work which they wrought, <a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and spoke to Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work that Jehovah commanded to be done. <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed through the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the heave-offering of the sanctuary! So the people were restrained from bringing; <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for the work they had was sufficient for all the work to do it, and it was too much.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And every wise-hearted man among those that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of twined byssus, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubim of artistic work did he make them. <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The length of one curtain was twenty-eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits--one measure for all the curtains. <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he coupled five of the curtains one to another, and the other five curtains coupled he one to another. <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain at the edge of the coupling; he did likewise in the edge of the outermost curtain in the other coupling. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He made fifty loops in one curtain, and he made fifty loops at the end of the curtain that was in the other coupling: the loops were opposite to one another. <a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains together with the clasps, so that the tabernacle became one.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he made curtains of goats' hair for the tent over the tabernacle: eleven curtains did he make them. <a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits the breadth of one curtain--one measure for the eleven curtains. <a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he coupled five of the curtains by themselves, and six of the curtains by themselves. <a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he made fifty loops on the edge of the outermost curtain in the coupling, and fifty loops made he on the edge of the curtain in the other coupling. <a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he made fifty clasps of copper to couple the tent, that it might be one. <a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of badgers' skins above that. <a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he made the boards for the tabernacle of acacia-wood, standing up; <a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> ten cubits the length of the boards, and one cubit and a half the breadth of one board; <a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> two tenons in one board, connected one with the other: thus did he make for all the boards of the tabernacle. <a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he made the boards for the tabernacle: twenty boards for the south side southward; <a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and he made forty bases of silver under the twenty boards, two bases under one board, for its two tenons, and two bases under another board for its two tenons. <a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And for the other side of the tabernacle, on the side toward the north, he made twenty boards, <a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and their forty bases of silver, two bases under one board, and two bases under another board. <a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And at the rear of the tabernacle, westward, he made six boards; <a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and he made two boards for the corners of the tabernacle at the rear; <a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and they were joined beneath, and were coupled together at the top thereof into one ring: thus he did to both of them in both the corners; <a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and there were eight boards, and their silver bases: sixteen bases, under every board two bases. <a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> --And he made bars of acacia-wood: five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle, <a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle at the rear, westward. <a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he made the middle bar in the midst of the boards reach from one end to the other. <a id="c36_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he overlaid the boards with gold; and made their rings of gold as receptacles for the bars; and overlaid the bars with gold.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he made the veil of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined byssus: of artistic work he made it with cherubim. <a id="c36_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he made four pillars of acacia -wood for it, and overlaid them with gold; their hooks were of gold; and he cast for them four bases of silver. <a id="c36_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he made a curtain for the entrance of the tent of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined byssus, of embroidery; <a id="c36_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and its five pillars with their hooks; and he overlaid their capitals and their connecting-rods with gold; and their five bases were of copper.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>