<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And thou shalt make an altar for the burning of incense: of acacia-wood shalt thou make it; <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> a cubit the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof--square shall it be; and two cubits its height; of itself shall be its horns. <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof; and thou shalt make upon it a border of gold round about. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And two rings of gold shalt thou make for it under its border; by its two corners shalt thou make them, on the two sides thereof; and they shall be for receptacles for the staves, with which to carry it. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And thou shalt make the staves of acacia-wood, and overlay them with gold. <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou shalt put it in front of the veil which is before the ark of the testimony in front of the mercy-seat which is over the testimony, where I will meet with thee. <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Aaron shall burn thereon fragrant incense: every morning, when he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn the incense. <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when Aaron lighteth the lamps between the two evenings, he shall burn the incense--a continual incense before Jehovah throughout your generations. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ye shall offer up no strange incense thereon, nor burnt-offering, nor oblation; neither shall ye pour drink-offering thereon. <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Aaron shall make atonement for its horns once in the year: with the blood of the sin-offering of atonement shall he make atonement for it, once in the year, throughout your generations: it is most holy to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When thou shalt take the sum of the children of Israel according to those of them that are numbered, then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul to Jehovah on their being numbered, that there be no plague among them on their being numbered. <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This shall they give--every one that passeth among them that are numbered--half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary, --twenty gerahs the shekel; a half shekel shall be the heave-offering for Jehovah. <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Every one that passeth among those that are numbered, from twenty years old and above, shall give the heave-offering of Jehovah. <a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than half a shekel, when ye give the heave-offering of Jehovah, to make atonement for your souls. <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thou shalt take the atonement-money of the children of Israel, and devote it to the service of the tent of meeting; and it shall be a memorial to the children of Israel before Jehovah, to make atonement for your souls.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou shalt also make a laver of copper, and its stand of copper, for washing; and thou shalt put it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and shalt put water in it. <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet out of it. <a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When they go into the tent of meeting, they shall wash with water, that they may not die; or when they come near to the altar to serve, to burn an offering by fire to Jehovah. <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they may not die; and it shall be an everlasting statute for them, for him and for his seed throughout their generations.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And thou, take best spices--of liquid myrrh five hundred shekels, and of sweet cinnamon the half--two hundred and fifty, and of sweet myrtle two hundred and fifty, <a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and of cassia five hundred, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of olive oil a hin; <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and make of it an oil of holy ointment, a perfume of perfumery after the work of the perfumer: it shall be the holy anointing oil. <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And thou shalt anoint the tent of meeting with it, and the ark of the testimony, <a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and the table and all its utensils, and the lamp-stand and its utensils, and the altar of incense, <a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and the altar of burnt-offering and all its utensils, and the laver and its stand. <a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And thou shalt hallow them, that they may be most holy: whatever toucheth them shall be holy. <a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Aaron and his sons thou shalt anoint, and shalt hallow them, that they may serve me as priests. <a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And thou shalt speak to the children of Israel, saying, A holy anointing oil shall this be unto me throughout your generations. <a id="c30_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make any like it, after the preparation of it: it is holy--holy shall it be unto you. <a id="c30_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Whoever compoundeth any like it, or whoever putteth any of it upon any strange thing, shall be cut off from his peoples. <a id="c30_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, Take fragrant drugs--stacte, and onycha, and galbanum--fragrant drugs and pure frankincense; in like proportions shall it be. <a id="c30_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And thou shalt make it into incense, a perfume, after the work of the perfumer, salted, pure, holy. <a id="c30_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And thou shalt beat some of it to powder, and put some of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting, where I will meet with thee: it shall be unto you most holy. <a id="c30_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the incense that thou shalt make, ye shall not make for yourselves according to the proportions of it; it shall be unto thee holy to Jehovah. <a id="c30_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Whoever maketh like unto it, to smell it, shall be cut off from his peoples.</p>

</body>
</html>