<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, that they turn and encamp before Pi-hahiroth, between Migdol and the sea: before Baal-Zephon, opposite to it, shall ye encamp by the sea. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are entangled in the land, the wilderness has hemmed them in. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, that he may pursue after them; and I will glorify myself in Pharaoh, and in all his host; and the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah. And they did so. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it was told the king of Egypt that the people had fled; and the heart of Pharaoh and of his bondmen was turned against the people, and they said, Why have we done this, that we have let Israel go from our service? <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he yoked his chariot, and took his people with him. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and captains over every one of them. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel; and the children of Israel had gone out with a high hand. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the Egyptians pursued after them, --all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them where they had encamped by the sea, beside Pi-hahiroth, opposite to Baal-Zephon.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Pharaoh approached; and the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians marched after them; and the children of Israel were much afraid, and cried out to Jehovah. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they said to Moses, Is it because there were no graves in Egypt, thou hast taken us away to die in the wilderness? why hast thou done this to us, that thou hast led us out of Egypt? <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Is not this what we told thee in Egypt, when we said, Let us alone, and we will serve the Egyptians? For it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Moses said to the people, Fear not: stand still, and see the salvation of Jehovah, which he will work for you to-day; for the Egyptians whom ye have seen to-day, ye shall see them again no more for ever. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah will fight for you, and ye shall be still.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, Why dost thou cry unto me? Speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thou, lift thy staff, and stretch out thy hand over the sea, and divide it; and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall pursue after them; and I will glorify myself in Pharaoh and in all his host, in his chariots and in his horsemen. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the Egyptians shall know that I am Jehovah, when I have glorified myself in Pharaoh, in his chariots and in his horsemen. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the Angel of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> who went before the camp of Israel, removed and went behind them; and the pillar of the cloud went from before them, and stood behind them. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel; and was a cloud and darkness, and lit up the night; and the one did not come near the other all the night.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and Jehovah made the sea go back by a strong east wind all the night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the children of Israel went through the midst of the sea on the dry ground; and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the Egyptians pursued and came after them--all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots and his horsemen, into the midst of the sea. <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it came to pass in the morning watch, that Jehovah looked upon the camp of the Egyptians, in the pillar of fire and of the cloud, and embarrassed the camp of the Egyptians. <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he took off their chariot wheels, and caused them to drive with difficulty; and the Egyptians said, Let us flee before Israel, for Jehovah is fighting for them against the Egyptians! <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, Stretch out thy hand over the sea, that the waters may return upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots and upon their horsemen. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its strength toward the morning; and the Egyptians fled against it; and Jehovah overturned the Egyptians into the midst of the sea. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the waters returned, and covered the chariots and the horsemen of all the host of Pharaoh that had come into the sea after them; there remained not even one of them. <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the children of Israel walked on dry ground through the midst of the sea; and the waters were a wall to them on their right hand and on their left. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Thus Jehovah saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the sea-shore. <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Israel saw the great power with which Jehovah had wrought against the Egyptians; and the people feared Jehovah, and believed in Jehovah, and in Moses his bondman.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>