<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring me a heave-offering: of every one whose heart prompteth him, ye shall take my heave-offering. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this is the heave-offering that ye shall take of them: gold, and silver, and copper, <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and byssus, and goats' hair, <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and rams' skins dyed red, and badgers' skins; and acacia-wood; <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> oil for the light; spices for the anointing oil, and for the incense of fragrant drugs; <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod, and in the breastplate. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they shall make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> According to all that I shall shew thee, the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the utensils thereof, even so shall ye make it.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they shall make an ark of acacia-wood; two cubits and a half the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold: inside and outside shalt thou overlay it; and shalt make upon it a border of gold round about. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And cast four rings of gold for it, and put them at the four corners thereof, that two rings may be upon the one side thereof and two rings upon the other side thereof. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And make staves of acacia-wood and overlay them with gold. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And put the staves into the rings upon the sides of the ark, that the ark may be borne with them. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not come out from it. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony that I shall give thee. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And thou shalt make a mercy-seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And thou shalt make two cherubim of gold; of beaten work shalt thou make them, at the two ends of the mercy-seat. <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And make one cherub at the end of the one side, and one cherub at the end of the other side; out of the mercy-seat shall ye make the cherubim at the two ends thereof. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the cherubim shall stretch out their wings over it, covering over with their wings the mercy-seat, and their faces opposite to one another: toward the mercy-seat shall the faces of the cherubim be turned. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And thou shalt put the mercy-seat above on the ark, and shalt put in the ark the testimony that I shall give thee. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And there will I meet with thee, and will speak with thee from above the mercy-seat, from between the two cherubim which are upon the ark of the testimony, everything that I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And thou shalt make a table of acacia-wood, two cubits the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof. <a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make upon it a border of gold round about. <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And thou shalt make for it a margin of a handbreadth round about, and shalt make a border of gold for the margin thereof round about. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings at the four corners that are on the four feet thereof. <a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Close to the margin shall the rings be, as receptacles of the staves to carry the table. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And thou shalt make the staves of acacia-wood, and overlay them with gold; and the table shall be carried upon them. <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and cups thereof, and goblets thereof, and bowls thereof, with which to pour out: of pure gold shalt thou make them. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me continually.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And thou shalt make a lamp-stand of pure gold; of beaten work shall the lamp-stand be made: its base and its shaft, its cups, its knobs, and its flowers shall be of the same. <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And six branches shall come out of the sides thereof--three branches of the lamp-stand out of one side thereof, and three branches of the lamp-stand out of the other side thereof; <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> three cups shaped like almonds in the one branch, a knob and a flower: and three cups shaped like almonds in the other branch, a knob and a flower: so in the six branches that come out of the lamp-stand. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And in the lamp-stand four cups shaped like almonds, its knobs and its flowers; <a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and a knob under two branches of it, and again a knob under two branches of it, and again a knob under two branches of it, for the six branches that proceed out of the lamp-stand. <a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Their knobs and their branches shall be of itself--all of one beaten work of pure gold. <a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof, and they shall light the lamps thereof, that they may shine out before it; <a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and the snuffers thereof, and the snuff-trays thereof, of pure gold. <a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Of a talent of pure gold shall they make it, with all these utensils. <a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And see that thou make them according to their pattern, which hath been shewn to thee in the mountain.</p>

</body>
</html>