<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thou shalt not accept a false report; extend not thy hand to the wicked, to be an unrighteous witness. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou shalt not follow the multitude for evil; neither shalt thou answer in a cause, to go after the multitude to pervert judgment. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Neither shalt thou favour a poor man in his cause. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> --If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt certainly bring it back to him. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under its burden, beware of leaving it to him: thou shalt certainly loosen it with him. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of thy poor in his cause. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou shalt keep far from the cause of falsehood; and the innocent and righteous slay not; for I will not justify the wicked. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou shalt take no bribe; for the bribe blindeth those whose eyes are open, and perverteth the words of the righteous. <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the stranger thou shalt not oppress; for ye know the spirit of the stranger, for ye have been strangers in the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and gather in its produce; <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> but in the seventh thou shalt let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of thy people may eat of it; and what they leave, the beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with thy vineyard, and with thine olive-tree. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> --Six days thou shalt do thy work, but on the seventh day thou shalt rest; that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the son of thy handmaid, and the stranger may be refreshed. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And ye shall be on your guard as to everything that I have said unto you; and shall make no mention of the name of other gods--it shall not be heard in thy mouth. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thrice in the year thou shalt celebrate a feast to me. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread, (thou shalt eat unleavened bread seven days, as I have commanded thee, in the time appointed of the month Abib; for in it thou camest out from Egypt; and none shall appear in my presence empty;) <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the feast of harvest, the first-fruits of thy labours which thou hast sown in the field, and the feast of in-gathering, at the end of the year, when thou gatherest in thy labours out of the field. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Three times in the year all thy males shall appear in the presence of the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread; neither shall the fat of my feast remain all night until the morning. <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The first of the first-fruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the house of Jehovah thy God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Thou shalt not boil a kid in its mother's milk.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee to the place that I have prepared. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Be careful in his presence, and hearken unto his voice: do not provoke him, for he will not forgive your transgressions; for my name is in him. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But if thou shalt diligently hearken unto his voice, and do all that I shall say, then I will be an enemy to thine enemies, and an adversary to thine adversaries. <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the Amorites and the Hittites and the Perizzites and the Canaanites, the Hivites and the Jebusites; and I will cut them off. <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their deeds; but thou shalt utterly destroy them, and utterly shatter their statues. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And ye shall serve Jehovah your God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and he shall bless thy bread and thy water; and I will take sickness away from thy midst. <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There shall nothing cast their young, nor be barren, in thy land; the number of thy days will I fulfil. <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I will send my fear before thee, and confound every people to which thou comest, and will make all thine enemies turn their back to thee. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee. <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I will not drive them out from before thee in one year: lest the land become desolate, and the beast of the field multiply against thee. <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, until thou art fruitful, and possess the land. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And I will set thy bounds from the Red Sea even unto the sea of the Philistines, and from the wilderness unto the river; for I will give the inhabitants of the land into your hand, that thou mayest dispossess them from before thee. <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods. <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me; for if thou serve their gods, it is sure to be a snare unto thee.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>