<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when any one will present an oblation to Jehovah, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil on it, and put frankincense thereon. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons, the priests; and he shall take thereout his handful of the flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; and the priest shall burn the memorial thereof on the altar, an offering by fire to Jehovah of a sweet odour. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the remainder of the oblation shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is most holy of Jehovah's offerings by fire. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And if thou present an offering of an oblation baken in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And if thine offering be an oblation baken on the pan, it shall be fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is an oblation. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And if thine offering be an oblation prepared in the cauldron, it shall be made of fine flour with oil. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou shalt bring the oblation that is made of these things to Jehovah; and it shall be presented to the priest, and he shall bring it to the altar. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the priest shall take from the oblation a memorial thereof, and shall burn it on the altar, an offering by fire to Jehovah of a sweet odour. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the remainder of the oblation shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is most holy of Jehovah's offerings by fire.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> No oblation which ye shall present to Jehovah shall be made with leaven; for no leaven and no honey shall ye burn in any fire-offering to Jehovah. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As to the offering of the first-fruits, ye shall present them to Jehovah; but they shall not be offered upon the altar for a sweet odour. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And every offering of thine oblation shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> to be lacking from thine oblation: with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if thou present an oblation of thy first-fruits to Jehovah, thou shalt present as the oblation of thy first-fruits green ears of corn roasted in fire, corn beaten out of full ears. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And thou shalt put oil on it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is an oblation. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the priest shall burn the memorial thereof, part of the beaten corn thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof: it is an offering by fire to Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>