<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And this is the law of the trespass-offering--it is most holy: <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in the place where they slaughter the burnt-offering shall they slaughter the trespass-offering; and the blood thereof shall he sprinkle on the altar round about. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he shall present of it all the fat thereof; the fat tail and the fat that covereth the inwards, <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the net above the liver, which he shall take away as far as the kidneys. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the priest shall burn them on the altar, an offering by fire to Jehovah: it is a trespass-offering. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Every male among the priests shall eat thereof; in a holy place shall it be eaten: it is most holy. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As the sin-offering, so is the trespass-offering; there shall be one law for them: it shall be the priest's who maketh atonement therewith. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And as to the priest that presenteth any man's burnt-offering, the skin of the burnt-offering which he hath presented shall be the priest's for himself. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And every oblation that is baken in the oven, and all that is prepared in the cauldron and in the pan, shall be the priest's who offereth it; to him it shall belong. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And every oblation, mingled with oil, and dry, shall all the sons of Aaron have, one as the other.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace-offering, which a man shall present to Jehovah. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If he present it for a thanksgiving, then he shall present with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and fine flour saturated with oil, cakes mingled with oil. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Besides the cakes, he shall present his offering of leavened bread with the sacrifice of his peace-offering of thanksgiving. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And of it he shall present one out of the whole offering as a heave-offering to Jehovah; to the priest that sprinkleth the blood of the peace-offering, to him it shall belong. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offering of thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day that it is presented; he shall not let any of it remain until the morning. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or voluntary, it shall be eaten the same day that he presented his sacrifice; on the morrow also the remainder of it shall be eaten; <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned with fire. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace-offering be eaten at all on the third day, it shall not be accepted, it shall not be reckoned to him that hath presented it; it shall be an unclean thing, and the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquity. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the flesh that toucheth anything unclean shall not be eaten; it shall be burned with fire. And as to the flesh, all that are clean may eat the flesh. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the soul that eateth the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offering which is for Jehovah, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from his peoples. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And if any one touch anything unclean, the uncleanness of man, or unclean beast, or any unclean abomination, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace-offering, which is for Jehovah, that soul shall be cut off from his peoples. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, No fat, of ox, or of sheep, or of goat shall ye eat. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But the fat of a dead carcase, and the fat of that which is torn, may be used in any other use; but ye shall in no wise eat it. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For whoever eateth the fat of the beast of which men present an offering by fire to Jehovah, the soul that hath eaten shall be cut off from his peoples. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And no blood shall ye eat in any of your dwellings, whether it be of fowl or of cattle. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whatever soul it be that eateth any manner of blood, that soul shall be cut off from his peoples. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, He that presenteth the sacrifice of his peace-offering to Jehovah shall bring his offering to Jehovah of the sacrifice of his peace-offering. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> His own hands shall bring Jehovah's offerings by fire, the fat with the breast shall he bring: the breast, that it may be waved as a wave-offering before Jehovah. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the priest shall burn the fat on the altar; and the breast shall be Aaron's and his sons'. <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the right shoulder of the sacrifices of your peace-offerings shall ye give as a heave-offering unto the priest. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He of the sons of Aaron that presenteth the blood of the peace-offerings, and the fat, shall have the right shoulder for his part. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For the breast of the wave-offering, and the shoulder of the heave-offering, have I taken of the children of Israel from the sacrifices of their peace-offerings, and have given them unto Aaron the priest and unto his sons from the children of Israel by an everlasting statute.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> This is the portion of the anointing of Aaron and of the anointing of his sons, from Jehovah's offerings by fire, in the day when he presented them to serve Jehovah as priests, <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> which Jehovah commanded to be given them by the children of Israel in the day that he anointed them: it is an everlasting statute, throughout their generations. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> This is the law of the burnt-offering, of the oblation, and of the sin-offering, and of the trespass-offering, and of the consecration-offering, and of the sacrifice of peace-offering, <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> which Jehovah commanded Moses in mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to present their offerings to Jehovah, in the wilderness of Sinai.</p>

</body>
</html>