<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they came near before Jehovah and died; <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and Jehovah said to Moses, Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all times into the sanctuary inside the veil before the mercy-seat which is upon the ark, that he die not; for I will appear in the cloud upon the mercy-seat. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In this manner shall Aaron come into the sanctuary: with a young bullock for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A holy linen vest shall he put on, and linen trousers shall be upon his flesh, and he shall be girded with a linen girdle, and with the linen mitre shall he be attired: these are holy garments; and he shall bathe his flesh in water, and put them on.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And of the assembly of the children of Israel shall he take two bucks of the goats for a sin-offering, and one ram for a burnt-offering. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Aaron shall present the bullock of the sin-offering, which is for himself, and make atonement for himself, and for his house. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he shall take the two goats, and set them before Jehovah, before the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats: one lot for Jehovah, and the other lot for Azazel. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Aaron shall present the goat upon which the lot fell for Jehovah, and offer it as a sin-offering. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the goat upon which the lot fell for Azazel shall be set alive before Jehovah, to make atonement with it, to send it away as Azazel into the wilderness. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Aaron shall present the bullock of the sin-offering, which is for himself, and shall make atonement for himself and for his house, and shall slaughter the bullock of the sin-offering which is for himself. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he shall take the censer full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before Jehovah, and both his hands full of fragrant incense beaten small, and bring it inside the veil. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he shall put the incense upon the fire before Jehovah, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy-seat which is upon the testimony, that he die not. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he shall take of the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle with his finger upon the front of the mercy-seat eastward; and before the mercy-seat shall he sprinkle of the blood seven times with his finger.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he shall slaughter the goat of the sin-offering, which is for the people, and bring its blood inside the veil, and do with its blood as he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy-seat, and before the mercy-seat; <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and he shall make atonement for the sanctuary, to cleanse it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and from their transgressions in all their sins; and so shall he do for the tent of meeting which dwelleth among them in the midst of their uncleanness. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And there shall be no man in the tent of meeting when he goeth in to make atonement in the sanctuary until he come out; and he shall make atonement for himself, and for his house, and for the whole congregation of Israel. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he shall go out unto the altar which is before Jehovah, and make atonement for it; and shall take of the blood of the bullock, and of the goat, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about; <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and he shall sprinkle upon it of the blood with his finger seven times, and cleanse it, and hallow it from the uncleannesses of the children of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he hath ended making atonement for the sanctuary, and the tent of meeting, and the altar, he shall present the living goat; <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of the living goat, and confess over it all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions in all their sins, and he shall put them on the head of the goat, and shall send him away to the wilderness by the hand of a man standing ready; <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> that the goat may bear upon him all their iniquities to a land apart from men; and he shall send away the goat into the wilderness. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Aaron shall go into the tent of meeting, and shall put off the linen garments, which he put on when he went into the sanctuary, and shall leave them there; <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and he shall bathe his flesh with water in a holy place, and put on his garments, and go forth, and offer his burnt-offering, and the burnt-offering of the people, and make atonement for himself, and for the people. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the fat of the sin-offering shall he burn upon the altar. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he that letteth go the goat for Azazel shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water; and afterwards he may come into the camp. <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the bullock of the sin-offering, and the goat of the sin-offering whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the sanctuary, shall one carry forth outside the camp; and they shall burn with fire their skins, and their flesh, and their dung. <a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he that burneth them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water; and afterwards he may come into the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And this shall be an everlasting statute unto you. In the seventh month, on the tenth of the month, ye shall afflict your souls, and do no work at all, the home-born, and the stranger that sojourneth among you; <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> for on that day shall atonement be made for you, to cleanse you: from all your sins shall ye be clean before Jehovah. <a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> A sabbath of rest shall it be unto you, and ye shall afflict your souls: it is an everlasting statute. <a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the priest who hath been anointed, and who hath been consecrated, to exercise the priesthood in his father's stead, shall make atonement; and he shall put on the linen garments, the holy garments. <a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he shall make atonement for the holy sanctuary; and for the tent of meeting, and for the altar shall he make atonement; and for the priests, and for the whole people of the congregation shall he make atonement. <a id="c16_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And this shall be an everlasting statute unto you, to make atonement for the children of Israel to cleanse them from all their sins once a year. And he did as Jehovah had commanded Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>