<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and said to Aaron, Take thee a young calf for a sin-offering, and a ram for a burnt-offering, without blemish, and present them before Jehovah; <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and to the children of Israel shalt thou speak, saying, Take a buck of the goats for a sin-offering, and a calf and a lamb, yearlings, without blemish, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and a bullock and a ram for a peace-offering, to sacrifice before Jehovah; and an oblation mingled with oil; for to-day Jehovah will appear to you. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they brought what Moses commanded before the tent of meeting; and all the assembly approached and stood before Jehovah. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses said, This is the thing which Jehovah has commanded that ye should do; and the glory of Jehovah shall appear to you. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Moses said unto Aaron, Go to the altar, and offer thy sin-offering, and thy burnt-offering, and make atonement for thyself, and for the people; and offer the offering of the people, and make atonement for them, as Jehovah has commanded.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Aaron went to the altar and slaughtered the calf of the sin-offering which was for himself; <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the sons of Aaron presented the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it on the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the fat, and the kidneys, and the net above the liver, of the sin-offering, he burned on the altar, as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the flesh and the skin he burned with fire outside the camp. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he slaughtered the burnt-offering; and Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, which he sprinkled on the altar round about. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they delivered the burnt-offering to him, in the pieces thereof, and the head; and he burned them on the altar. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he washed the inwards and the legs, and burned them upon the burnt-offering, on the altar. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he presented the people's offering, and took the goat of the sin-offering which was for the people and slaughtered it, and offered it for sin, as the first. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he presented the burnt-offering and offered it according to the ordinance. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he presented the oblation, and took a handful of it, and burned it on the altar, besides the burnt-offering of the morning. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he slaughtered the bullock and the ram of the sacrifice of peace-offering which was for the people. And Aaron's sons delivered to him the blood, and he sprinkled it on the altar round about; <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the pieces of fat of the bullock and of the ram, the fat tail and what covers the inwards, and the kidneys, and the net of the liver; <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and they put the pieces of fat on the breast-pieces, and he burned the pieces of fat on the altar; <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and the breast-pieces and the right shoulder Aaron waved as a wave-offering before Jehovah, as Moses had commanded. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people and blessed them, and came down after the offering of the sin-offering, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offering.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and came out and blessed the people; and the glory of Jehovah appeared to all the people. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And there went out fire from before Jehovah, and consumed on the altar the burnt-offering, and the pieces of fat; and all the people saw it, and they shouted, and fell on their face.</p>

</body>
</html>