<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing: he shall be brought unto the priest, <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and the priest shall go out of the camp; and when the priest looketh, and behold, the sore of leprosy is healed in the leper, <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> then shall the priest command to take for him that is to be cleansed two clean living birds, and cedar-wood, and scarlet, and hyssop. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the priest shall command that one bird be killed in an earthen vessel over running water: <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> as to the living bird--he shall take it, and the cedar-wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water; <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and he shall sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times, and shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living bird loose into the open field. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he that is to be cleansed shall wash his garments, and shave all his hair, and bathe in water, and he shall be clean; and afterwards shall he come into the camp, and shall abide outside his tent seven days. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it shall come to pass on the seventh day, that he shall shave all his hair, his head, and his beard, and his eyebrows, even all his hair shall he shave, and he shall wash his garments, and shall bathe his flesh in water, and he is clean.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And on the eighth day he shall take two he-lambs without blemish, and one yearling ewe-lamb without blemish, and three tenth parts of fine flour mingled with oil, for an oblation, and one log of oil. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the priest that cleanseth him shall present the man that is to be cleansed and those things before Jehovah, at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the priest shall take one he-lamb, and present it for a trespass-offering, and the log of oil, and wave them as a wave-offering before Jehovah. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he shall slaughter the he-lamb at the place where the sin-offering and the burnt-offering are slaughtered, in a holy place; for as the sin-offering, so the trespass-offering is the priest's: it is most holy. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the priest shall take of the blood of the trespass-offering, and the priest shall put it on the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the priest shall take of the log of oil, and pour it into his, the priest's, left hand; <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand, and shall sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven times before Jehovah. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And of the rest of the oil that is in his hand shall the priest put on the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass-offering. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the remainder of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put upon the head of him that is to be cleansed, and the priest shall make atonement for him before Jehovah. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the priest shall offer the sin-offering, and make atonement for him that is to be cleansed from his uncleanness; and afterwards shall he slaughter the burnt-offering. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the priest shall offer the burnt-offering and the oblation upon the altar; and the priest shall make atonement for him, and he shall be clean.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But if he be poor, and his hand be not able to get it, then he shall take one lamb for a trespass-offering, for a wave-offering, to make atonement for him; and one tenth part of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; and a log of oil, <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, as his hand may be able to get: the one shall be a sin-offering, and the other a burnt-offering. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he shall bring them on the eighth day of his cleansing unto the priest, unto the entrance of the tent of meeting, before Jehovah. <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the priest shall take the he-lamb of the trespass-offering, and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them as a wave-offering before Jehovah. <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he shall slaughter the he-lamb of the trespass-offering; and the priest shall take of the blood of the trespass-offering, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot. <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the priest shall pour of the oil into his, the priest's, left hand, <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before Jehovah. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the priest shall put of the oil that is in his hand upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and on the great toe of his right foot, upon the place of the blood of the trespass-offering. <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the remainder of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put upon the head of him that is to be cleansed, to make atonement for him before Jehovah. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he shall offer one of the turtle-doves, or of the young pigeons, of what his hand was able to get; <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> of what his hand was able to get shall the one be a sin-offering, and the other a burnt-offering, with the oblation; and the priest shall make atonement for him that is to be cleansed before Jehovah. <a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> This is the law for him in whom is the sore of leprosy, whose hand cannot get what is regularly prescribed in his cleansing.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, <a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> When ye come into the land of Canaan, which I give to you for a possession, and I put a leprous plague in a house of the land of your possession, <a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> then he whose house it is shall come and tell the priest, saying, It seemeth to me like a plague in the house; <a id="c14_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and the priest shall command that they empty the house before the priest go into it to see the plague, that all that is in the house be not made unclean; and afterwards the priest shall go in to see the house. <a id="c14_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And when he looketh on the plague, and behold, the plague is in the walls of the house, greenish or reddish hollows, and their look is deeper than the surface of the wall, <a id="c14_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> then the priest shall go out of the house to the entrance of the house, and shut up the house seven days. <a id="c14_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the priest shall come again the seventh day, and when he looketh, and behold, the plague hath spread in the walls of the house, <a id="c14_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> then the priest shall command that they take away the stones in which the plague is, and they shall cast them out of the city, in an unclean place. <a id="c14_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he shall cause the house to be scraped within round about, and they shall pour out the mortar that they have scraped off, out of the city in an unclean place. <a id="c14_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And they shall take other stones, and put them in the place of those stones; and they shall take other mortar, and shall plaster the house. <a id="c14_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And if the plague come again, and break out in the house, after he hath taken away the stones, and after he hath scraped the house, and after it is plastered, <a id="c14_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> then the priest shall come, and when he looketh, and behold, the plague hath spread in the house, it is a corroding leprosy in the house: it is unclean. <a id="c14_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And they shall break down the house, the stones of it, and the timber thereof, and all the mortar of the house, and shall carry them forth out of the city to an unclean place. <a id="c14_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And he that goeth into the house as long as it is shut up shall be unclean until the even. <a id="c14_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And he that sleepeth in the house shall wash his garments, and he that eateth in the house shall wash his garments. <a id="c14_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> But if the priest shall come in and look, and behold, the plague hath not spread in the house, after the house hath been plastered, the priest shall pronounce the house clean; for the plague is healed. <a id="c14_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And he shall take, to purge the house from the defilement, two birds, and cedar-wood, and scarlet, and hyssop; <a id="c14_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> and he shall kill one bird in an earthen vessel over running water; <a id="c14_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> and he shall take the cedar-wood and the hyssop and the scarlet, and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the bird that was killed, and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times; <a id="c14_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> and he shall purge the house from the defilement with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, and with the living bird, and with the cedar-wood, and with the hyssop, and with the scarlet; <a id="c14_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and he shall let the living bird loose out of the city into the open field; and he shall make atonement for the house, and it is clean.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> This is the law for every sore of leprosy, and for the scall, <a id="c14_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> and for the leprosy of garments, and of houses, <a id="c14_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> and for the rising, and for the scab, and for the bright spot, <a id="c14_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> to teach when there is uncleanness, and when it is purified: this is the law of leprosy.</p>

</body>
</html>