<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Balaam saw that it was good in the sight of Jehovah to bless Israel, and he went not, as at other times, to seek for enchantments, but he set his face toward the wilderness. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Balaam lifted up his eyes and saw Israel dwelling in tents according to his tribes; and the Spirit of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> came upon him. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor saith, and the man of opened eye saith, <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He saith, who heareth the words of 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> who seeth the vision of the Almighty, who falleth down, and who hath his eyes open: <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> How goodly are thy tents, Jacob, and thy tabernacles, Israel! <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Like valleys are they spread forth, like gardens by the river side, Like aloe-trees which Jehovah hath planted, like cedars beside the waters. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Water shall flow out of his buckets, and his seed shall be in great waters, And his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> brought him out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of a buffalo. He shall consume the nations his enemies, and break their bones, and with his arrows shall smite them in pieces. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He stooped, he lay down like a lion, and like a lioness: who will stir him up? Blessed is he that blesseth thee, and cursed is he that curseth thee.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he smote his hands together; and Balak said to Balaam, I called thee to curse mine enemies, and behold, thou hast altogether blessed them these three times! <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now flee thou to thy place; I said I would very highly honour thee, and behold, Jehovah has kept thee back from honour. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Balaam said to Balak, Did I not also speak to thy messengers whom thou sentest to me, saying, <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If Balak gave me his house full of silver and gold, I could not go beyond the commandment of Jehovah to do good or bad out of my heart: what Jehovah shall say, that will I speak? <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And now behold, I go to my people: come, I will admonish thee what this people will do to thy people at the end of days.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor saith, and the man of opened eye saith, <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He saith, who heareth the words of 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> who knoweth the knowledge of the Most High, Who seeth the vision of the Almighty, who falleth down, and who hath his eyes open: <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I shall see him, but not now; I shall behold him, but not nigh: There cometh a Star out of Jacob, and a Sceptre shall rise out of Israel, and he shall cut in pieces the corners of Moab, and destroy all the sons of tumult. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Edom shall be a possession, and Seir a possession, --they, his enemies; but Israel will do valiantly. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And one out of Jacob shall have dominion, and will destroy out of the city what remaineth. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he saw Amalek, and took up his parable, and said, Amalek is the first of the nations, but his latter end shall be for destruction. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he saw the Kenites, and took up his parable, and said, Firm is thy dwelling-place, and thy nest fixed in the rock; <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the Kenite shall be consumed, until Asshur shall carry thee away captive. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he took up his parable, and said, Alas! Who shall live when 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> doeth this? <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And ships shall come from the coast of Chittim, and afflict Asshur, and afflict Eber, and he also shall be for destruction. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place; and Balak also went his way.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>