<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah said to Aaron, Thou and thy sons and thy father's house with thee shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary; and thou and thy sons with thee shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood. <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And thy brethren also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of thy father, bring near with thee, that they may unite with thee, and minister unto thee; but thou and thy sons with thee shall serve before the tent of the testimony. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they shall keep thy charge, and the charge of the whole tent: only they shall not come near to the vessels of the sanctuary and to the altar, that they may not die, and you as well as they. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they shall unite with thee, and keep the charge of the tent of meeting, for all the service of the tent; and no stranger shall come near to you. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And ye shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the altar; that there come no wrath any more upon the children of Israel. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I, behold, I have taken your brethren, the Levites, from among the children of Israel; to you are they given as a gift for Jehovah to perform the service of the tent of meeting. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But thou and thy sons with thee shall attend to your priesthood for all that concerneth the altar, and for that which is inside the veil; and ye shall perform the service: I give you your priesthood as a service of gift, and the stranger that cometh near shall be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah spoke to Aaron, And I, behold, I have given thee the charge of my heave-offerings, of all the hallowed things of the children of Israel; to thee have I given them, because of the anointing, and to thy sons by an everlasting statute. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> This shall be thine of the most holy things, reserved from the fire: every offering of theirs, of all their oblations, and of all their sin-offerings, and of all their trespass-offerings, which they render unto me, it is most holy for thee and for thy sons. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As most holy shalt thou eat it: every male shall eat it; it shall be holy unto thee. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And this shall be thine: the heave-offering of their gift, with all the wave-offerings of the children of Israel; I have given them unto thee, and to thy sons and to thy daughters with thee, by an everlasting statute; every one that is clean in thy house shall eat of it. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All the best of the oil, and all the best of the new wine, and of the wheat, the firstfruits of them which they give to Jehovah, have I given thee. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The first ripe of everything that is in their land, which they shall bring to Jehovah, shall be thine; every one that is clean in thy house shall eat of it. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Every devoted thing in Israel shall be thine. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Everything that breaketh open the womb of all flesh, which they present to Jehovah, of men or of beasts, shall be thine; nevertheless the firstborn of man shalt thou in any case ransom, and the firstborn of unclean beasts shalt thou ransom. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And those that are to be ransomed from a month old shalt thou ransom, according to thy valuation, for the money of five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the firstborn of a cow, or the firstborn of a sheep, or the firstborn of a goat, thou shalt not ransom: they are holy. Thou shalt sprinkle their blood on the altar, and their fat shalt thou burn as an offering by fire for a sweet odour to Jehovah. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And their flesh shall be thine; as the wave-breast and as the right shoulder shall it be thine. <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All the heave-offerings of the holy things, which the children of Israel offer to Jehovah, have I given thee, and to thy sons and to thy daughters with thee, by an everlasting statute: it shall be an everlasting covenant of salt before Jehovah unto thee and thy seed with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Jehovah said to Aaron, In their land thou shalt have no inheritance, neither shalt thou have any portion among them: I am thy portion and thine inheritance among the children of Israel. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And to the children of Levi, behold, I have given all the tithes in Israel for an inheritance, for their service which they perform, the service of the tent of meeting. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Neither shall the children of Israel henceforth come near the tent of meeting, to bear sin and die. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But the Levite, he shall perform the service of the tent of meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity: it is an everlasting statute throughout your generations. And among the children of Israel shall they possess no inheritance; <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for I have given for an inheritance to the Levites the tithes of the children of Israel, which they offer as a heave-offering to Jehovah; therefore I have said of them, They shall possess no inheritance among the children of Israel. <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And to the Levites shalt thou speak, and say unto them, When ye take of the children of Israel the tithes which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then ye shall offer a heave-offering from it for Jehovah, the tenth of the tithe. <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And your heave-offering shall be reckoned unto you, as the corn from the threshing-floor, and as the fulness of the winepress. <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thus ye also shall offer Jehovah's heave-offering of all your tithes, which ye take of the children of Israel; and ye shall give thereof Jehovah's heave-offering to Aaron the priest. <a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Out of all that is given you ye shall offer the whole heave-offering of Jehovah, --of all the best thereof the hallowed part thereof. <a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And thou shalt say unto them, When ye heave the best thereof from it, then it shall be counted unto the Levites as produce of the threshing-floor, and as produce of the winepress. <a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And ye shall eat it in every place, ye and your households; for it is your reward for your service in the tent of meeting. <a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And ye shall bear no sin by reason of it, if ye heave from it the best of it; and ye shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, lest ye die.</p>

</body>
</html>