<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Israel abode in Shittim; and the people began to commit fornication with the daughters of Moab. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they invited the people to the sacrifices of their gods; and the people ate, and bowed down to their gods. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Israel joined himself to Baal-Peor; and the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, Take all the heads of the people, and hang them up to Jehovah before the sun, that the fierce anger of Jehovah may be turned away from Israel. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Moses said to the judges of Israel, Slay every one his men that have joined themselves to Baal-Peor.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And behold, a man of the children of Israel came and brought a Midianitish woman to his brethren, in the sight of Moses, and in the sight of the whole assembly of the children of Israel, who were weeping before the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saw it, and rose up from among the assembly, and took a javelin in his hand, <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and he went after the man of Israel into the tent-chamber, and thrust both of them through, the man of Israel and the woman through her belly. And the plague was stayed from the children of Israel. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And those that died in the plague were twenty-four thousand. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, hath turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, in that he was jealous with my jealousy among them, so that I consumed not the children of Israel in my jealousy. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore say, Behold, I give unto him my covenant of peace! <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he shall have it, and his seed after him, the covenant of an everlasting priesthood; because he was jealous for his God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and made atonement for the children of Israel. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the name of the man of Israel that was slain, who was slain with the Midianitish woman, was Zimri, the son of Salu, the prince of a father's house of the Simeonites. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the name of the Midianitish woman that was slain was Cozbi, the daughter of Zur; he was tribal head of a father's house in Midian.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Harass the Midianites, and smite them, <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for they have harassed you with their wiles, wherewith they have beguiled you in the matter of Peor, and in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of a prince of Midian, their sister, who was slain on the day of the plague because of the matter of Peor.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>