<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The children of Israel shall encamp every one by his standard, with the ensign of their father's house; round about the tent of meeting, afar off, opposite to it shall they encamp.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And for those encamping eastward toward the sun-rising there shall be the standard of the camp of Judah according to their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Judah shall be Nahshon the son of Amminadab; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and his host, even those that were numbered of them, were seventy-four thousand six hundred. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And those that encamp next unto him shall be the tribe of Issachar; and the prince of the sons of Issachar shall be Nethaneel the son of Zuar; <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and his host, even those that were numbered thereof, fifty-four thousand four hundred. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> With them shall be the tribe of Zebulun; and the prince of the sons of Zebulun shall be Eliab the son of Helon; <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and his host, even those that were numbered thereof, fifty-seven thousand four hundred. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All that were numbered of the camp of Judah were a hundred and eighty-six thousand four hundred, according to their hosts. They shall set forth first. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The standard of the camp of Reuben shall be southward according to their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur; <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and his host, even those that were numbered thereof, forty-six thousand five hundred. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Simeon; and the prince of the sons of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and his host, even those that were numbered of them, fifty-nine thousand three hundred. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And with them shall be the tribe of Gad; and the prince of the sons of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel; <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and his host, even those that were numbered of them, forty-five thousand six hundred and fifty. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All that were numbered of the camp of Reuben were a hundred and fifty-one thousand four hundred and fifty, according to their hosts. And they shall set forth second. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the tent of meeting shall set forth, the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps; as they encamp, so shall they set forth, every man in his place, according to their standards. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their hosts shall be westward; and the prince of the sons of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud; <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and his host, even those that were numbered of them, forty thousand five hundred. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And by him shall be the tribe of Manasseh; and the prince of the sons of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur; <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and his host, even those that were numbered of them, thirty-two thousand two hundred. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And with them shall be the tribe of Benjamin; and the prince of the sons of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni; <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and his host, even those that were numbered of them, thirty-five thousand four hundred. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were a hundred and eight thousand one hundred, according to their hosts. And they shall set forth third. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The standard of the camp of Dan shall be northward according to their hosts; and the prince of the sons of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai; <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and his host, even those that were numbered of them, sixty-two thousand seven hundred. <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher; and the prince of the sons of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ocran; <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and his host, even those that were numbered of them, forty-one thousand five hundred. <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And with them shall be the tribe of Naphtali; and the prince of the sons of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan; <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and his host, even those that were numbered of them, fifty-three thousand four hundred. <a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> All that were numbered of the camp of Dan were a hundred and fifty-seven thousand six hundred. They shall set forth last according to their standards. <a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These are those that were numbered of the children of Israel, according to their fathers' houses: all those that were numbered of the camps, according to their hosts, were six hundred and three thousand five hundred and fifty. <a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the children of Israel did according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses: so they encamped according to their standards, and so they journeyed, every one according to their families, according to their fathers' houses.</p>

</body>
</html>