<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the chief fathers of families of the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near, and spoke before Moses, and before the princes, the chief fathers of the children of Israel: <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and they said, Jehovah commanded my lord to give the land for an inheritance by lot to the children of Israel; and my lord was commanded by Jehovah to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters. <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now if they be married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the children of Israel, then shall their inheritance be taken from the inheritance of our fathers, and shall be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they shall belong; and it shall be taken from the lot of our inheritance. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the jubilee of the children of Israel shall come, then shall their inheritance be added to the inheritance of the tribe to which they shall belong; and their inheritance shall be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Moses commanded the children of Israel according to the word of Jehovah, saying, The tribe of the sons of Joseph hath said well. <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This is the thing which Jehovah hath commanded concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, Let them marry whom they please; only they shall marry one of the tribe of their father, <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> that no inheritance of the children of Israel pass from tribe to tribe; for every one of the children of Israel shall keep to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers. <a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And every daughter that possesseth an inheritance among the tribes of the children of Israel, shall be married to one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may possess every one the inheritance of his fathers, <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the inheritance shall not pass from one tribe to another tribe; for each of the tribes of the children of Israel shall keep to his inheritance. <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Even as Jehovah had commanded Moses, so did the daughters of Zelophehad; <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married unto their uncles' sons. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To those that were of the families of the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph were they married; and their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father. <a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These are the commandments and the ordinances which Jehovah commanded through Moses to the children of Israel, in the plains of Moab, by the Jordan of Jericho.</p>

</body>
</html>