<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If a man or a woman have vowed the special vow of a Nazarite, to consecrate themselves to Jehovah; <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> he shall separate himself from wine and strong drink: he shall drink no vinegar of wine, nor vinegar of strong drink, neither shall he drink any liquor of grapes, nor eat grapes, fresh or dried. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> All the days of his separation shall he eat nothing that is made of the vine, from the seed-stones, even to the skin. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All the days of the vow of his separation there shall no razor come upon his head; until the days be fulfilled, that he hath consecrated himself to Jehovah, he shall be holy; he shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All the days that he hath consecrated himself to Jehovah, he shall come near no dead body. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, for his brother, or for his sister when they die; for the consecration of his God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is upon his head. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All the days of his separation he is holy to Jehovah. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And if any one die unexpectedly by him suddenly, and he hath defiled the head of his consecration, then he shall shave his head on the day of his cleansing; on the seventh day shall he shave it. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtle-doves, or two young pigeons, to the priest, at the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the priest shall offer one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt-offering, and make an atonement for him, for that he sinned by the dead person; and he shall hallow his head that same day. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he shall again consecrate to Jehovah the days of his separation, and shall bring a yearling lamb for a trespass-offering. But the first days are forfeited, for his consecration hath been defiled. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And this is the law of the Nazarite on the day when the days of his consecration are fulfilled: he shall be brought to the entrance of the tent of meeting. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he shall present his offering to Jehovah, one yearling he-lamb without blemish for a burnt-offering, and one yearling ewe-lamb without blemish for a sin-offering, and one ram without blemish for a peace-offering; <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and a basket with unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and their oblation, and their drink-offerings. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the priest shall present them before Jehovah, and shall offer his sin-offering and his burnt-offering: <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and he shall offer the ram, a sacrifice of peace-offering to Jehovah, with the basket of unleavened bread; the priest shall offer also his oblation and his drink-offering. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the Nazarite shall shave the head of his consecration at the entrance to the tent of meeting, and shall take the hair of the head of his consecration, and put it on the fire which is under the sacrifice of the peace-offering. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the priest shall take the boiled shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them upon the hands of the Nazarite, after he hath shaven the hair of his consecration. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the priest shall wave them as wave-offering before Jehovah; it is holy for the priest, with the breast of the wave-offering and with the shoulder of the heave-offering; and afterwards the Nazarite may drink wine. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> This is the law of the Nazarite who hath vowed: his offering to Jehovah for his consecration, beside what his hand is able to get; according to the vow which he vowed, so shall he do, according to the law of his consecration.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Speak unto Aaron and unto his sons, saying, On this wise ye shall bless the children of Israel: saying unto them, <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Jehovah bless thee, and keep thee; <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jehovah make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee; <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jehovah lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they shall put my name upon the children of Israel; and I will bless them.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>