<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses saying, <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak unto Aaron, and say unto him, When thou lightest the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light over against the candlestick. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Aaron did so; he lighted the lamps thereof over against the candlestick, as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And this was the work of the candlestick: it was of beaten gold; from its base to its flowers was it beaten work; according to the form which Jehovah had shewn Moses, so had he made the candlestick.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Take the Levites from among the children of Israel, and cleanse them. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thus shalt thou do unto them, to cleanse them: sprinkle upon them water of purification from sin; and they shall pass the razor over all their flesh, and shall wash their garments, and make themselves clean. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they shall take a young bullock and its oblation of fine flour mingled with oil; and another young bullock shalt thou take for a sin-offering. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou shalt bring the Levites before the tent of meeting; and thou shalt gather together the whole assembly of the children of Israel. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And thou shalt bring the Levites before Jehovah; and the children of Israel shall put their hands upon the Levites. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Aaron shall offer the Levites as a wave-offering before Jehovah from the children of Israel, and they shall perform the service of Jehovah. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of the bullocks, and thou shalt offer the one for a sin-offering, and the other for a burnt-offering, to Jehovah, to make atonement for the Levites. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou shalt set the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons, and offer them as a wave-offering to Jehovah. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And thou shalt separate the Levites from among the children of Israel, that the Levites may be mine. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And afterwards shall the Levites come in to do the service of the tent of meeting. And thou shalt cleanse them, and offer them as a wave-offering. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For they are wholly given unto me from among the children of Israel; instead of every one that breaketh open the womb, instead of every firstborn among the children of Israel, have I taken them unto me. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For all the firstborn among the children of Israel are mine, both of man and beast; on the day that I smote every firstborn in the land of Egypt, I hallowed them to myself. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I have taken the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons, from among the children of Israel, to perform the service of the children of Israel in the tent of meeting, and to make atonement for the children of Israel; that there be no plague among the children of Israel, when the children of Israel draw near to the sanctuary. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Moses and Aaron, and all the assembly of the children of Israel, did to the Levites according to all that Jehovah had commanded Moses concerning the Levites: so did the children of Israel to them. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Levites purified themselves from sin, and they washed their garments; and Aaron offered them as a wave-offering before Jehovah; and Aaron made atonement for them to cleanse them. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And afterwards the Levites came in to perform their service in the tent of meeting before Aaron, and before his sons; as Jehovah had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did they to them. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> This is that which concerneth the Levites: from twenty-five years old and upward shall he come to labour in the work of the service of the tent of meeting. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And from fifty years old he shall retire from the labour of the service, and shall serve no more; <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> but he shall minister with his brethren in the tent of meeting, and keep the charge, but he shall not serve in the service. Thus shalt thou do unto the Levites with regard to their charges.</p>

</body>
</html>