<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Canaanite king of Arad, who dwelt in the south, heard that Israel came by the way of Atharim, and he fought against Israel, and took some of them prisoners. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then Israel vowed a vow to Jehovah, and said, If thou give this people wholly into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jehovah listened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them, and their cities. And they called the name of the place Hormah.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, to go round the land of Edom; and the soul of the people became impatient on the way; <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the people spoke against God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and against Moses, Why have ye brought us up out of Egypt that we should die in the wilderness? for there is no bread, and no water, and our soul loathes this light bread. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then Jehovah sent fiery serpents among the people, which bit the people; and much people of Israel died. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the people came to Moses and said, We have sinned, in that we have spoken against Jehovah, and against thee: pray to Jehovah that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole; and it shall come to pass, that every one that is bitten, and looketh upon it, shall live. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a pole; and it came to pass, if a serpent had bitten any man, and he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the children of Israel journeyed, and encamped in Oboth. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they removed from Oboth, and encamped at Ijim-Abarim, in the wilderness that is before Moab, toward the sun-rising. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> From thence they removed, and encamped at the torrent Zered. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> From thence they removed, and encamped on the other side of the Arnon, which is in the wilderness that comes out of the border of the Amorites. For the Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore it is said in the book of the wars of Jehovah, Vaheb in Suphah, and the brooks of Arnon; <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the stream of the brooks which turneth to the dwelling of Ar, And inclineth toward the border of Moab. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And from thence to Beer: that is the well of which Jehovah spoke to Moses, Assemble the people, and I will give them water. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then Israel sang this song, Rise up, well! sing unto it: <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Well which princes digged, which the nobles of the people hollowed out at the word of the lawgiver, with their staves. And from the wilderness they went to Mattanah; <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and from Mattanah to Nahaliel; and from Nahaliel to Bamoth; <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and from Bamoth to the valley that is in the fields of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looks over the surface of the waste.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, saying, <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let us pass through thy land; we will not turn into the fields, or into the vineyards; we will not drink water out of the wells; on the king's road will we go until we have passed thy border. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But Sihon would not suffer Israel to go through his border; and Sihon gathered all his people, and went out against Israel into the wilderness, and came to Jahaz, and fought against Israel. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword, and took possession of his land from the Arnon to the Jabbok, even unto the children of Ammon; for the border of the children of Ammon was strong. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Israel took all these cities, and Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites, at Heshbon, and in all its dependent villages. <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites; and he had fought against the former king of Moab, and had taken all his land out of his hand, even unto the Arnon. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Therefore the poets say, Come to Heshbon; let the city of Sihon be built and established. <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For there went forth fire from Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon; It consumed Ar of Moab, the lords of the high places of the Arnon. <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Woe to thee, Moab! thou art undone, people of Chemosh: He gave his sons that had escaped, and his daughters into captivity to Sihon the king of the Amorites. <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And we have shot at them; Heshbon is perished even unto Dibon; and we have laid them waste even unto Nophah, which reacheth unto Medeba. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites. <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Moses sent to spy out Jaazer, and they took its dependent villages, and he dispossessed the Amorites that were there. <a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they turned and went up by the way to Bashan; and Og the king of Bashan went out against them, he and all his people, for battle to Edrei. <a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, Fear him not! for into thy hand have I given him, and all his people, and his land; and thou shalt do to him as thou didst unto Sihon the king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon. <a id="c21_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they smote him, and his sons, and all his people, so that they left him none remaining, and took possession of his land.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>