<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Send thou men, that they may search out the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel. Ye shall send a man of every tribe of his fathers, each a prince among them. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran: according to the commandment of Jehovah, all of them heads of the children of Israel. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And these are their names: for the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur; <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori; <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh; <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph; <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun; <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu; <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi; <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for the tribe of Joseph, for the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi; <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli; <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael; <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi; <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These are the names of the men whom Moses sent to search out the land. And Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun, Jehoshua. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Moses sent them to search out the land of Canaan, and said to them, Go up this way by the south and go up into the hill-country, <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and ye shall see the land, what it is; and the people that dwell in it, whether they are strong or weak, few or many; <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it is good or bad; and what cities they are that they dwell in, whether in camps, or in strongholds; <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and what the land is, whether it is fat or lean, whether there are trees in it, or not. And take courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first grapes.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they went up, and searched out the land from the wilderness of Zin to Rehob, where one comes towards Hamath. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they went up by the south, and came to Hebron; and Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were there. Now Hebron had been built seven years before Zoan in Egypt. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they came as far as the valley of Eshcol, and cut down thence a branch with one bunch of grapes, and they bore it between two upon a pole; and they brought of the pomegranates, and of the figs. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> That place was called the valley of Eshcol, because of the grapes which the children of Israel had cut down there. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they returned from searching out the land after forty days.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they came, and went to Moses and to Aaron, and to the whole assembly of the children of Israel, to the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word to them, and to the whole assembly; and shewed them the fruit of the land. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they told him, and said, We came to the land to which thou didst send us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey; and this is the fruit of it. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Only, the people are strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled, very great; moreover we saw the children of Anak there. <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Amalek dwells in the land of the south; and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amorites dwell in the hill-country; and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the side of the Jordan. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go up boldly and possess it, for we are well able to do it. <a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But the men that went up with him said, We are not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they brought to the children of Israel an evil report of the land which they had searched out, saying, The land, which we have passed through to search it out, is a land that eateth up its inhabitants; and all the people that we have seen in it are men of great stature; <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and there have we seen giants--the sons of Anak are of the giants--and we were in our sight as grasshoppers, and so we were also in their sight.</p>

</body>
</html>