<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass on the day that Moses had completed the setting up of the tabernacle, and had anointed it, and hallowed it, and all the furniture thereof, and the altar and all its utensils, and had anointed them, and hallowed them, <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that the princes of Israel, the heads of their fathers' houses, the princes of the tribes, they that were over them that had been numbered, offered; <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and they brought their offering before Jehovah, six covered waggons, and twelve oxen; a waggon for two princes, and an ox for each; and they presented them before the tabernacle. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Take it of them, and they shall be for the performance of the service of the tent of meeting, and thou shalt give them unto the Levites, to each according to his service. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses took the waggons and the oxen, and gave them to the Levites. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Two waggons and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their service; <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and four waggons and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their service, --under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But unto the sons of Kohath he gave none, for the service of the sanctuary was upon them: they bore what they carried upon the shoulder.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the princes presented the dedication-gift of the altar on the day that it was anointed; and the princes presented their offering before the altar. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jehovah said to Moses, They shall present their offering for the dedication of the altar, each prince on his day. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he that presented his offering the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And his offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl, of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> On the second day offered Nethaneel the son of Zuar, prince of Issachar; <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> he presented his offering; one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour, mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Nethaneel the son of Zuar. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> On the third day, the prince of the children of Zebulun, Eliab the son of Helon: <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> his offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> On the fourth day, the prince of the children of Reuben, Elizur the son of Shedeur. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> His offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Elizur, the son of Shedeur. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> On the fifth day, the prince of the children of Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> His offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai. <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> On the sixth day, the prince of the children of Gad, Eliasaph the son of Deuel. <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> His offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel. <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> On the seventh day, the prince of the children of Ephraim, Elishama the son of Ammihud. <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> His offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud. <a id="c7_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> On the eighth day, the prince of the children of Manasseh, Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. <a id="c7_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> His offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur. <a id="c7_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> On the ninth day, the prince of the children of Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni. <a id="c7_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> His offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni. <a id="c7_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> On the tenth day, the prince of the children of Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. <a id="c7_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> His offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai. <a id="c7_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> On the eleventh day, the prince of the children of Asher, Pagiel the son of Ocran. <a id="c7_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> His offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ocran. <a id="c7_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> On the twelfth day, the prince of the children of Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan. <a id="c7_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> His offering was one silver dish of the weight of a hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for an oblation; <a id="c7_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> one cup of ten shekels of gold, full of incense; <a id="c7_v81"></a><span class="vn">81</span> one young bullock, one ram, one yearling lamb, for a burnt-offering; <a id="c7_v82"></a><span class="vn">82</span> one buck of the goats for a sin-offering; <a id="c7_v83"></a><span class="vn">83</span> and for a sacrifice of peace-offering, two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, five yearling lambs. This was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan. <a id="c7_v84"></a><span class="vn">84</span> This was the dedication-gift of the altar, on the day when it was anointed, from the princes of Israel: twelve silver dishes, twelve silver bowls, twelve cups of gold: <a id="c7_v85"></a><span class="vn">85</span> each silver dish of a hundred and thirty shekels, and each bowl seventy: all the silver of the vessels was two thousand four hundred shekels according to the shekel of the sanctuary; <a id="c7_v86"></a><span class="vn">86</span> twelve golden cups full of incense, each cup of ten shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary: all the gold of the cups, a hundred and twenty shekels. <a id="c7_v87"></a><span class="vn">87</span> All the cattle for the burnt-offering was: twelve bullocks, twelve rams, twelve yearling lambs and their oblation; and twelve bucks of the goats for a sin-offering. <a id="c7_v88"></a><span class="vn">88</span> And all the cattle for the sacrifice of the peace-offering was: twenty-four bullocks, sixty rams, sixty he-goats, sixty yearling lambs. This was the dedication-gift of the altar, after it had been anointed. <a id="c7_v89"></a><span class="vn">89</span> And when Moses went into the tent of meeting to speak with Him, then he heard the voice speaking to him from off the mercy-seat which was upon the ark of testimony, from between the two cherubim; and he spoke to Him.</p>

</body>
</html>