<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass after the plague, that Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying, <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take the sum of the whole assembly of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, according to their fathers' houses, all that go forth to military service in Israel. <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan of Jericho, saying, <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> From twenty years old and upward...; as Jehovah had commanded Moses and the children of Israel, who went forth out of the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Reuben, the firstborn of Israel: the children of Reuben: of Enoch, the family of the Enochites; of Pallu, the family of the Palluites; <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the family of the Carmites. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> These are the families of the Reubenites; and they that were numbered of them were forty-three thousand seven hundred and thirty. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the sons of Pallu: Eliab; <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and the sons of Eliab were Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. This is that Dathan and Abiram, summoned of the assembly, who contended against Moses and against Aaron in the band of Korah, when they contended against Jehovah. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that band died, when the fire devoured the two hundred and fifty men; and they became a sign. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the children of Korah died not. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The sons of Simeon, after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites; <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> of Zerah, the family of the Zarhites; of Saul, the family of the Saulites. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty-two thousand two hundred. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The children of Gad, after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the family of the Haggites; of Shuni, the family of the Shunites; <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> of Ozni, the family of the Oznites; of Eri, the family of the Erites; <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> of Arod, the family of the Arodites; of Areli, the family of the Arelites. <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> These are the families of the children of Gad according to those that were numbered of them, forty thousand five hundred. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sons of Judah: Er and Onan; and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the sons of Judah, after their families: of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites; of Pherez, the family of the Pharzites; of Zerah, the family of the Zarhites. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the sons of Pherez: of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> These are the families of Judah according to those that were numbered of them, seventy-six thousand five hundred. <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The sons of Issachar, after their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites; of Puah, the family of the Punites; <a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These are the families of Issachar according to those that were numbered of them, sixty-four thousand three hundred. <a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The sons of Zebulun, after their families: of Sered, the family of the Sardites; of Elon, the family of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites. <a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those that were numbered of them, sixty thousand five hundred. <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The sons of Joseph, after their families: Manasseh and Ephraim. <a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites (and Machir begot Gilead); of Gilead, the family of the Gileadites. <a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> These are the sons of Gilead: of Jeezer, the family of the Jeezerites; of Helek, the family of the Helkites; <a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and of Asriel, the family of the Asrielites; and of Shechem, the family of the Shechemites; <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and of Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites; and of Hepher, the family of the Hepherites. <a id="c26_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> --And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters; and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah. <a id="c26_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> --These are the families of Manasseh; and those that were numbered of them, fifty-two thousand seven hundred. <a id="c26_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> These are the sons of Ephraim, after their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthalhites; of Becher, the family of the Bachrites; of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites. <a id="c26_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites. <a id="c26_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those that were numbered of them, thirty-two thousand five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph after their families. <a id="c26_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> The sons of Benjamin, after their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites; <a id="c26_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> of Shephupham, the family of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites. <a id="c26_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman; of Ard the family of the Ardites; of Naaman, the family of the Naamites. <a id="c26_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> These are the sons of Benjamin after their families; and they that were numbered of them were forty-five thousand six hundred. <a id="c26_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> These are the sons of Dan, after their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan after their families. <a id="c26_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those that were numbered of them, were sixty-four thousand four hundred. <a id="c26_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> The sons of Asher, after their families: of Jimnah, the family of the Jimnites; of Jishvi, the family of the Jishvites; of Beriah, the family of the Beriites. <a id="c26_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites. <a id="c26_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah. <a id="c26_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> These are the families of the sons of Asher according to those that were numbered of them, fifty-three thousand four hundred. <a id="c26_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> The sons of Naphtali, after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the family of the Gunites; <a id="c26_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites. <a id="c26_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> These are the families of Naphtali, according to their families; and they that were numbered of them were forty-five thousand four hundred. <a id="c26_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> These were the numbered of the children of Israel, six hundred and one thousand seven hundred and thirty.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c26_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Unto these shall the land be divided for an inheritance according to the number of the names; <a id="c26_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> to the many thou shalt increase their inheritance, and to the few thou shalt diminish their inheritance; to every one shall his inheritance be given according to those that were numbered of him. <a id="c26_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Notwithstanding the land shall be divided by lot; according to the names of the tribes of their fathers shall they inherit; <a id="c26_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> according to lot shall his inheritance be divided to each, be they many or few in number.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And these are the numbered of the Levites, after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites; of Merari, the family of the Merarites. <a id="c26_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> These are the families of the Levites: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korahites. --And Kohath begot Amram. <a id="c26_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And the name of Amram's wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt; and she bore to Amram Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister. <a id="c26_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And to Aaron were born Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar. <a id="c26_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And Nadab and Abihu died, when they presented strange fire before Jehovah. <a id="c26_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> And those that were numbered of the Levites were twenty-three thousand, all males from a month old and upward; for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, because there was no inheritance given them among the children of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> These are they that were numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab, by the Jordan of Jericho. <a id="c26_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> But among these there was not a man numbered by Moses and Aaron the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai. <a id="c26_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> For Jehovah had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. And there was not left a man of them, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.</p>

</body>
</html>