<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, made bold, and with him Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, the sons of Reuben; <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and they rose up against Moses, with two hundred and fifty men of the children of Israel, princes of the assembly, summoned to the council, men of renown; <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said to them, It is enough; for all the assembly, all of them are holy, and Jehovah is among them; and why do ye lift up yourselves above the congregation of Jehovah? <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When Moses heard this, he fell on his face. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he spoke to Korah and to all his band, saying, Even to-morrow will Jehovah make known who is his, and who is holy; and he will cause him to come near to him; and him whom he has chosen, him will he cause to come near to him. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This do: take you censers, Korah, and all his band, <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and put fire therein, and lay incense thereon before Jehovah to-morrow; and it shall be that the man whom Jehovah doth choose, he shall be holy. It is enough, ye sons of Levi! <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Moses said to Korah, Hear, I pray you, ye sons of Levi! <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is it too little for you, that the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel has separated you from the assembly of Israel, to bring you near to himself to do the work of the tabernacle of Jehovah, and to stand before the assembly to minister to them? <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> --that he has brought thee near, and all thy brethren the sons of Levi with thee; and seek ye now the priesthood also? <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For which cause thou and all thy band are banded together against Jehovah; and Aaron, who is he that ye murmur against him?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab; but they said, We will not come up! <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land flowing with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, that thou must make thyself altogether a ruler over us? <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Moreover, thou hast not brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, or given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? we will not come up! <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then Moses was very wroth, and said to Jehovah, Have no regard to their oblation: not one ass have I taken from them, neither have I hurt one of them. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Moses said to Korah, Be thou and all thy band before Jehovah, thou, and they, and Aaron, to-morrow. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And take each his censer, and put incense thereon, and present before Jehovah every man his censer, two hundred and fifty censers; and thou, and Aaron, each his censer. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they took each his censer, and put fire on them, and laid incense thereon, and stood before the entrance to the tent of meeting, as well as Moses and Aaron. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Korah gathered the whole assembly against them to the entrance of the tent of meeting. And the glory of Jehovah appeared to all the assembly. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying, <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Separate yourselves from the midst of this assembly, and I will consume them in a moment. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they fell on their faces, and said, O ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> of the spirits of all flesh! shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth with the whole assembly?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Speak unto the assembly, saying, Get you up from about the habitation of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Moses rose up and went to Dathan and Abiram; and the elders of Israel followed him. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he spoke to the assembly, saying, Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest ye perish in all their sins. <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they got up from the habitation of Koran, Dathan, and Abiram, on every side. And Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood in the entrance of their tents, and their wives, and their sons, and their little ones. <a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that Jehovah has sent me to do all these deeds, for they are not out of my own heart: <a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> if these men die as all men die, and are visited with the visitation of all men, Jehovah has not sent me; <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> but if Jehovah make a new thing, and the ground open its mouth, and swallow them up, and all that they have, and they go down alive into Sheol, then ye shall know that these men have despised Jehovah. <a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And it came to pass when he had ended speaking all these words, that the ground clave apart that was under them. <a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the earth opened its mouth, and swallowed them up, and their households, and all the men that belonged to Korah, and all their property. <a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And they went down, they and all that they had, alive into Sheol, and the earth covered them; and they perished from among the congregation. <a id="c16_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And all Israel that were round about them fled at their cry; for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And there came out a fire from Jehovah, and consumed the two hundred and fifty men that had presented incense. <a id="c16_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c16_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Speak to Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he take up the censers out of the burning; and scatter the fire afar; for they are hallowed, <a id="c16_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> the censers of these sinners who have forfeited their life; and they shall make them into broad plates for the covering of the altar; for they presented them before Jehovah, therefore they are hallowed; and they shall be a sign unto the children of Israel. <a id="c16_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Eleazar the priest took the copper censers, which they that were burnt had presented; and they were made broad plates for a covering of the altar: <a id="c16_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> as a memorial to the children of Israel, that no stranger who is not of the seed of Aaron come near to burn incense before Jehovah, that he be not as Korah, and as his band, --as Jehovah had said to him through Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And the whole assembly of the children of Israel murmured on the morrow against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed the people of Jehovah. <a id="c16_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And it came to pass, when the assembly was gathered together against Moses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tent of meeting, and behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of Jehovah appeared. <a id="c16_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Moses and Aaron went before the tent of meeting. <a id="c16_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Jehovah spoke to Moses, saying, <a id="c16_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Get you up from the midst of this assembly, and I will consume them in a moment. And they fell on their faces. <a id="c16_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Moses said to Aaron, Take the censer, and put fire thereon from off the altar, and lay on incense, and carry it quickly to the assembly, and make atonement for them; for there is wrath gone out from Jehovah: the plague is begun. <a id="c16_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And Aaron took as Moses had said, and ran into the midst of the congregation; and behold, the plague had begun among the people; and he put on incense, and made atonement for the people. <a id="c16_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed. <a id="c16_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Now they that died in the plague were fourteen thousand seven hundred, besides them that had died because of the matter of Korah. <a id="c16_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Aaron returned to Moses to the entrance of the tent of meeting; and the plague was stayed.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>