<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thou shalt not see thy brother's ox or his sheep go astray, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt in any case bring them back unto thy brother. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And if thy brother be not near unto thee, and thou know him not, then thou shalt bring it unto thy house, and it shall be with thee until thy brother seek after it, and thou shalt restore it unto him. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And so shalt thou do with his ass; and so shalt thou do with his clothing; and so shalt thou do with everything that is lost of thy brother, which he loseth, and thou findest: thou mayest not hide thyself. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou shalt not see thy brother's ass or his ox fall by the way, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt in any case help him to lift them up.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> There shall not be a man's apparel on a woman, neither shall a man put on a woman's clothing; for whoever doeth so is an abomination to Jehovah thy God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If a bird's nest chance to be before thee in the way, in any tree, or upon the ground, with young or with eggs, and the dam sitting upon the young or upon the eggs, thou shalt not take the dam with the young: <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> thou shalt in any case let the dam go, and thou mayest take the young to thee, that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest prolong thy days. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When thou buildest a new house, thou shalt make a parapet for thy roof, that thou bring not blood upon thy house, if any one should in any wise fall from it. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with seed of two sorts, lest the whole of thy seed which thou hast sown, and the produce of thy vineyard, be forfeited. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou shalt not plough with an ox and an ass together. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou shalt not wear a garment of mixed material, woven of wool and linen together. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Tassels shalt thou make thee on the four corners of thy clothing, wherewith thou coverest thyself.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If a man take a wife, and go in unto her and hate her, <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and charge her with things for scandalous talk, and cause an evil name against her to be spread abroad, and say, This woman have I taken, and I came in unto her, and I did not find her a virgin; <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> then shall the father of the damsel, and her mother, take and bring forth the tokens of the damsel's virginity unto the elders of the city in the gate; <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the damsel's father shall say unto the elders, I gave my daughter unto this man as wife, and he hates her; <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and behold, he charges her with things for scandalous talk, saying, I found not thy daughter a virgin; and here are the tokens of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city. <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the elders of that city shall take the man and chastise him; <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and they shall fine him a hundred shekels of silver, and give them unto the father of the damsel, because he hath caused an evil name to be spread abroad against a virgin in Israel. And she shall remain his wife: he may not put her away all his days. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But if this thing is true, and virginity hath not been found with the damsel; <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> then they shall bring out the damsel unto the entrance of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones that she die: because she hath wrought infamy in Israel, committing fornication in her father's house; and thou shalt put evil away from thy midst. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If a man be found lying with a man's wife, they shall both of them die, the man that lay with the woman, and the woman; and thou shalt put away evil from Israel. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If a damsel, a virgin, be betrothed to some one, and a man find her in the city, and lie with her, <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> then ye shall bring them both out unto the gate of that city, and stone them with stones that they die; the damsel, because she cried not, being in the city, and the man, because he hath humbled his neighbour's wife; and thou shalt put evil away from thy midst. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But if a man find a betrothed damsel in the field, and the man force her, and lie with her, then the man only that lay with her shall die; <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and unto the damsel thou shalt do nothing: there is in the damsel no sin worthy of death; for as when a man riseth against his neighbour, and murdereth him, so is this matter; <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> for he found her in the field, the betrothed damsel cried, and there was no one to save her. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> If a man find a damsel, a virgin, who is not betrothed, and lay hold on her, and lie with her, and they be found, <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> then the man that lay with her shall give unto the damsel's father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife, because he hath humbled her; he may not put her away all his days. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> A man shall not take his father's wife, nor uncover his father's skirt.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>