<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Jericho was shut up and was barred, because of the children of Israel: none went out, and none came in. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jehovah said to Joshua, See, I have given into thy hand Jericho, and the king thereof, and the valiant men. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And ye shall go round the city, all the men of war, encompassing the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And seven priests shall carry before the ark seven blast-trumpets; and on the seventh day ye shall go round the city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it shall come to pass when they make a long blast with the blast-horn, that all the people on hearing the sound of the trumpet shall shout with a great shout; and the wall of the city shall fall flat, and the people shall go up, each one straight before him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests, and said to them, Carry the ark of the covenant, and seven priests shall carry seven blast-trumpets before the ark of Jehovah. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he said to the people, Pass on, go round the city, and they that are armed shall pass on before the ark of Jehovah. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass when Joshua had spoken to the people, that the seven priests carrying the seven blast-trumpets before Jehovah passed on and blew with the trumpets; and the ark of the covenant of Jehovah went after them. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the armed men went before the priests who blew with the trumpets, and the rearguard came after the ark; they blew with the trumpets in marching. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Joshua had commanded the people, saying, Ye shall not shout, nor let your voice be heard, neither shall a word proceed out of your mouth, until the day I say to you, Shout; then shall ye shout. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the ark of Jehovah went round the city, encompassing it once; and they came into the camp, and lodged in the camp. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests carried the ark of Jehovah. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the seven priests carrying the seven blast-trumpets before the ark of Jehovah went on and blew continually with the trumpets; and the armed men went before them, and the rearguard went after the ark of Jehovah; they blew with the trumpets in marching. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And on the second day they went round the city once, and returned into the camp. So they did six days. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it was so that on the seventh day they rose early, about the morning-dawn, and went round the city after the same manner seven times; only on that day they went round the city seven times. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it came to pass the seventh time, when the priests blew with the trumpets, that Joshua said to the people, Shout; for Jehovah has given you the city.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the city shall be accursed, it and all that is in it, to Jehovah; only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all that are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But in any wise keep from the accursed thing, lest ye make yourselves accursed in taking of the accursed thing, and make the camp of Israel a curse, and trouble it. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And all the silver, and gold, and vessels of copper and iron, shall be holy to Jehovah; they shall come into the treasury of Jehovah. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the people shouted, and they blew with the trumpets. And it came to pass when the people heard the sound of the trumpets, and the people shouted with a great shout, that the wall fell down flat; and the people went up into the city, each one straight before him, and they took the city. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city; both man and woman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with the edge of the sword. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Joshua said to the two men that had spied out the country, Go into the harlot's house and bring out thence the woman, and all that she has, as ye swore unto her. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the young men, the spies, went in and brought out Rahab, and her father, and her mother, and her brethren, and all that she had: all her kindred did they bring out, and they left them outside the camp of Israel. <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they burned the city with fire, and all that was therein; only the silver, and the gold, and the vessels of copper and of iron, they put into the treasury of the house of Jehovah. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Joshua saved alive Rahab the harlot, and her father's household, and all that she had, and she dwelt in the midst of Israel to this day; because she hid the messengers whom Joshua had sent to spy out Jericho. <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Joshua swore at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before Jehovah who shall rise up and build this city Jericho! In his first-born shall he lay its foundation, and in his youngest son shall he set up its gates. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Jehovah was with Joshua; and his fame was in all the land.</p>

</body>
</html>