<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the whole assembly of the children of Israel gathered together at Shiloh, and set up the tent of meeting there; and the land was subdued before them.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And there remained among the children of Israel seven tribes whose inheritance had not been distributed to them. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Joshua said to the children of Israel, How long will ye shew yourselves slack to go to take possession of the land which Jehovah the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of your fathers hath given you? <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Provide you three men for a tribe; that I may send them, and they shall rise and go through the land, and describe it according to the proportion of their inheritance, and they shall come to me. <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they shall divide it into seven portions. Judah shall remain in their border on the south, and the house of Joseph shall remain in their border on the north; <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and ye shall describe the land into seven portions, and bring the description hither to me, and I will cast lots for you here before Jehovah our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the Levites have no portion among you, for the priesthood of Jehovah is their inheritance. And Gad, and Reuben, and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan on the east, which Moses the servant of Jehovah gave them. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the men arose and went away. And Joshua charged them that went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, and describe it, and come again to me, and I will cast lots for you here before Jehovah in Shiloh. <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the men went and passed through the land, and described it by cities into seven portions, in a book, and they came to Joshua, to the camp at Shiloh. <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before Jehovah. And there Joshua divided the land to the children of Israel according to their divisions.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families. And the territory of their lot came forth between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And their border on the north side was from the Jordan; and the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north, and went up to the mountain westward; and ended at the wilderness of Beth-Aven; <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and the border passed on from thence toward Luz, to the south side of Luz, which is Bethel: and the border went down to Ataroth-Addar, near the hill that is on the south of the lower Beth-horon. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> --And the border reached along and turned on the west side, southward from the hill that is before Beth-horon southward; and ended at Kirjath-Baal, which is Kirjath-jearim, a city of the children of Judah: this is the west side. <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> --And the south side was from the extreme end of Kirjath-jearim, and the border went out on the west, and went out to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the border went down to the end of the mountain that is before the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is in the valley of Rephaim on the north, and went down the valley of Hinnom, to the side of the Jebusite on the south, and went down to En-rogel; <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and it reached along on the north, and went forth to En-shemesh, and went forth towards Geliloth, which is opposite to the ascent of Adummim, and went down to the stone of Bohan, the son of Reuben, <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and passed along towards the side opposite to Arabah northwards, and went down to Arabah; <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and the border passed on to the side of Beth-hoglah on the north, and the border ended at the tongue of the salt sea northward, at the south end of the Jordan: this is the southern border. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> --And the Jordan borders it on the east side. --This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, according to its borders round about, according to their families. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families were: Jericho, and Beth-hoglah, and Emek-Keziz, <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and Beth-Arabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel, <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and Avvim, and Parah, and Ophrah, <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and Chephar-haammonai, and Ophni, and Geba: twelve cities and their hamlets; <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth, <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah, <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and Rekem, and Jirpeel, and Tharalah, <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Zelah, Eleph, and Jebusi, that is, Jerusalem, Gibeah, Kirjath: fourteen cities and their hamlets. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>