<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass when Jabin king of Hazor heard this, that he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph, <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and to the kings that were northward in the mountains, and in the plain south of Chinneroth, and in the lowland, and on the upland of Dor on the west, <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> to the Canaanite on the east and on the west, and to the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the mountains, and to the Hivite at the foot of Hermon in the land of Mizpah. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they went out, they and all their armies with them, a people numerous as the sand that is on the seashore in multitude, with horses and chariots very many. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And all these kings met together, and came and encamped together at the waters of Merom, to fight against Israel. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah said to Joshua, Be not afraid because of them; for to-morrow about this time will I give them all up slain before Israel: their horses shalt thou hough, and thou shalt burn their chariots with fire. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Joshua, and all the people of war with him, came upon them by the waters of Merom suddenly, and fell upon them. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah delivered them into the hand of Israel, and they smote them, and chased them unto great Zidon, and to Misrephoth-maim, and to the valley of Mizpah eastward, and smote them until none were left remaining to them. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Joshua did to them as Jehovah had said to him: he houghed their horses, and burned their chariots with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Joshua turned back at that time, and took Hazor, and smote the king thereof with the sword; for Hazor was in times past the head of all those kingdoms. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they smote all the souls that were therein with the edge of the sword, destroying them utterly: there was not any left to breathe; and he burned Hazor with fire. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And all the cities of those kings and all their kings did Joshua take; and he smote them with the edge of the sword, destroying them utterly, as Moses the servant of Jehovah had commanded. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Only, all the cities that stood still upon their hills Israel did not burn, save Hazor alone, which Joshua burned. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And all the spoil of these cities and the cattle the children of Israel took as prey to themselves; only, they smote all the men with the edge of the sword, until they had destroyed them: they left none that breathed.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As Jehovah had commanded Moses his servant, so did Moses command Joshua, and so did Joshua: he let nothing fail of all that Jehovah had commanded Moses. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Joshua took all that land, the mountain and all the south, and all the land of Goshen, and the lowland, and the plain, and the mountain of Israel, and its lowland; <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> from the smooth mountain, which rises toward Seir, as far as Baal-Gad in the valley of Lebanon, at the foot of mount Hermon; and he took all their kings, and smote them, and put them to death. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Joshua made war a long time with all those kings. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> There was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, save the Hivites who dwelt at Gibeon; they took all in battle. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For it was of Jehovah that their heart was hardened, to meet Israel in battle, that they might be utterly destroyed, and that there might be no favour shewn to them, but that they might be destroyed, as Jehovah had commanded Moses. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Joshua came at that time and cut off the Anakim from the mountains, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the mountain of Judah, and from all the mountain of Israel: Joshua destroyed them utterly, with their cities. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There were none of the Anakim left in the land of the children of Israel; only at Gazah, at Gath, and at Ashdod there remained. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Joshua took the whole land, according to all that Jehovah had said to Moses; and Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel according to their divisions, by their tribes. And the land rested from war.</p>

</body>
</html>