<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And these are the nations that Jehovah left, to prove Israel by them, all that had not known all the wars of Canaan; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> only that the generations of the children of Israel might know war by learning it, at the least those who before had known nothing thereof: <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> five lord ships of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwell on mount Lebanon; from mount Baal-Hermon unto the entering into Hamath. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would obey the commandments of Jehovah, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites: Hittites and Amorites and Perizzites and Hivites and Jebusites; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and they took their daughters as wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of Jehovah, and forgot Jehovah their God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and served the Baals and the Asherahs.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the anger of Jehovah was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Chushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia; and the children of Israel served Chushan-rishathaim eight years. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah; and Jehovah raised up a saviour to the children of Israel, who saved them, Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Spirit of Jehovah was upon him, and he judged Israel; and he went out to war, and Jehovah gave Chushan-rishathaim king of Syria into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Chushan-rishathaim. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the land had rest forty years; and Othniel the son of Kenaz died.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of Jehovah; and Jehovah strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they did evil in the sight of Jehovah. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he gathered to him the children of Ammon and Amalek and went and smote Israel, and they took possession of the city of palm-trees. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the children of Israel cried to Jehovah, and Jehovah raised them up a saviour, Ehud the son of Gera, the Benjaminite, a man left-handed. And by him the children of Israel sent a gift to Eglon king of Moab. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Ehud made him a sword having two edges, it was of a cubit length; and he girded it under his raiment upon his right hip. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he brought the gift to Eglon king of Moab; now Eglon was a very fat man. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it came to pass when he had ended offering the gift, he sent away the people that had borne the gift. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But he turned from the graven images that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret word unto thee, O king. And he said, Be silent! And all that stood by him went out from him. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Ehud came to him; now he was sitting in the cool upper-chamber, which was for him alone. And Ehud said, I have a word from God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> unto thee. And he arose from the seat. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the sword from his right hip, and thrust it into his belly; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and the haft also went in after the blade, and the fat closed upon the blade; for he did not draw the sword out of his belly, and it came out between the legs. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Ehud went out into the portico, and shut the doors of the upper-chamber upon him, and bolted them. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when he was gone out, the servants of the king came and saw, and behold, the doors of the upper-chamber were bolted. And they said, Surely he is covering his feet in the summer chamber. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they waited till they were ashamed; and behold, he opened not the doors of the upper-chamber, and they took the key, and opened them, and behold, their lord lay dead on the earth. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Ehud had escaped while they lingered, and passed beyond the graven images, and escaped to Seirah. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it came to pass when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the hill-country of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the hill-country, and he before them. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said to them, Follow after me, for Jehovah has delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of the Jordan toward Moab, and suffered no one to pass over. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they slew the Moabites at that time, about ten thousand men, all fat, and all men of valour, and not a man escaped. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest eighty years.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath; and he smote the Philistines, six hundred men, with an ox-goad. And he also delivered Israel.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>