<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass after a time, in the days of the wheat-harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid of the goats. And he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber; but her father would not suffer him to go in. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And her father said, I verily thought that thou didst utterly hate her; therefore I gave her to thy companion. Is not her younger sister fairer than she? Let her, I pray thee, be thine instead of her. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Samson said to them, This time I am blameless toward the Philistines, though I do them harm. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Samson went and caught three hundred jackals, and took torches, and turned tail to tail, and put a torch in the midst between the two tails. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he set the torches on fire, and let them run into the standing corn of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks, and also the standing corn, and the olive gardens. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Philistines said, Who has done this? And they answered, Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife and gave her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burned her and her father with fire. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Samson said to them, If ye act thus, for a certainty I will avenge myself on you, and then I will cease. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter. And he went down and dwelt in the cleft of the cliff Etam.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the Philistines went up, and encamped in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they said, To bind Samson are we come up, to do to him as he has done to us. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then three thousand men of Judah went down to the cleft of the cliff Etam, and said to Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines rule over us? And what is this that thou hast done to us? And he said to them, As they did to me, so have I done to them. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they said to him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may give thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said to them, Swear to me that ye will not fall on me yourselves. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they spoke to him, saying, No; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand; but we certainly shall not put thee to death. And they bound him with two new cords, and brought him up from the cliff. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When he came to Lehi, the Philistines shouted against him. And the Spirit of Jehovah came upon him, and the cords that were on his arms became as threads of flax that are burned with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he found a fresh jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand and took it, and slew with it a thousand men. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Samson said, With the jawbone of an ass, a heap, two heaps, With the jawbone of an ass have I slain a thousand men. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass when he had ended speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand, and called that place Ramath-Lehi.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he was very thirsty, and called on Jehovah, and said, Thou hast given by the hand of thy servant this great deliverance, and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised? <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> clave the hallow rock which was in Lehi, and water came out of it. And he drank, and his spirit came again, and he revived. Therefore its name was called En-hakkore, which is in Lehi to this day. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>