<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that a certain Levite, sojourning on the further side of mount Ephraim, took him a concubine out of Bethlehem-Judah. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And his concubine played the whore against him, and went away from him to her father's house to Bethlehem-Judah, and was there some time, --four months. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And her husband rose up and went after her, to speak kindly to her, to bring her again; and his servant was with him, and a couple of asses. And she brought him into her father's house; and when the father of the damsel saw him he rejoiced to meet him. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And his father-in-law, the damsel's father, retained him, and he abode with him three days; and they ate and drank, and lodged there. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it came to pass on the fourth day, that they arose early in the morning, and he rose up to depart; and the damsel's father said to his son-in-law, Refresh thy heart with a morsel of bread, and afterwards ye may go your way. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they sat down, and ate and drank, both of them together. And the damsel's father said to the man, Be content, I pray thee, and pass the night, and let thy heart be glad. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the man rose up to depart, but his father-in-law urged him, and he lodged there again. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart; but the damsel's father said, Refresh thy heart, I pray thee. And they lingered until the afternoon, and they did eat both of them. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant; and his father-in-law, the damsel's father, said to him, Behold now, the day draws toward evening--I pray you stay all night; behold, the day is declining, lodge here, and let thy heart be merry; and to-morrow get you early on your way, that thou mayest go to thy tent. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the man would not tarry the night; and he rose up and departed, and came opposite to Jebus, that is, Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, and his concubine was with him. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They were near Jebus, and the day was far spent; and the servant said to his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn aside into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But his master said to him, We will not turn aside into the city of a stranger, which is not of the children of Israel, but we will pass on to Gibeah. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he said to his servant, Come and let us draw near to one of these places, and lodge in Gibeah, or in Ramah. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them when they were by Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they turned aside thither, to go in, to lodge in Gibeah. And he went in, and sat down in the open place of the city; and there was no one that received him into his house to pass the night.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even; and the man was of mount Ephraim, and he sojourned in Gibeah; but the men of the place were Benjaminites. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the wayfaring man in the open place of the city; and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou? <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said to him, We are travelling from Bethlehem-Judah towards the further side of mount Ephraim; from thence am I; and I went to Bethlehem-Judah, and I have to do with the house of Jehovah; and there is no man that receives me into his house. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And we have both straw and provender for our asses; and I have bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man with thy servants: there is no lack of anything. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then the old man said, Peace be with thee; only let all thy wants lie on me; but lodge not in the street. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he brought him into his house, and gave the asses provender; and they washed their feet, and ate and drank.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They were making their hearts merry, when behold, the men of the city, sons of Belial, surrounded the house, beating at the door; and they spoke to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thy house, that we may know him. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the man, the master of the house, went out to them, and said to them, No, my brethren, I pray you, do not wickedly; seeing that this man is come into my house, do not this villany. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Behold, my daughter, who is a virgin, and his concubine; let me bring them out, and humble ye them, and do to them as is good in your sight; but to this man do not so vile a thing. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But the men would not hearken to him; and the man took his concubine, and brought her forth to them; and they knew her, and abused her all the night until the morning; and let her go when the morning-dawn arose. <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the woman came at the dawning of the day, and fell down at the entrance of the man's house where her lord was, till it was light. <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the door of the house, and went out to go his way, and behold, there lay the woman his concubine at the entrance of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold. <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said to her, Up, and let us go; but no one answered. And he took her upon the ass; and the man rose up, and went to his place. <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when he was come into his house, he took the knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, according to her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the borders of Israel. <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And it came to pass that every one that saw it said, There was no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came out of Egypt to this day. Think it over, advise, and speak.</p>

</body>
</html>