<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then sang Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, on that day, saying, <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For that leaders led in Israel, For that the people willingly offered themselves, Bless Jehovah! <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Hear, ye kings; give ear, ye princes, I, even I, will sing to Jehovah; I will hymn to Jehovah the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Jehovah, when thou wentest forth from Seir, When thou marchedst out of the fields of Edom, The earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, Yea, the clouds dropped water. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The mountains quaked before the face of Jehovah, That Sinai, from before Jehovah the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, The roads were unused, and the travellers on highways went by crooked paths. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The villages ceased in Israel, Ceased until that I Deborah arose, That I arose a mother in Israel. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: Was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel? <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My heart is toward the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless Jehovah! <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye that ride on white she-asses, ye that sit on carpets, and ye that walk by the way, consider. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because of the voice of those who divide the spoil in the midst of the places of drawing water; There they rehearse the righteous acts of Jehovah, His righteous acts toward his villages in Israel. Then the people of Jehovah went down to the gates.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Awake, awake, Deborah! awake, awake, utter a song! Arise, Barak, and lead captive thy captives, thou son of Abinoam! <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then come down, thou, the remnant of nobles, as his people; Jehovah! come down with me in the midst of the mighty ones. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Out of Ephraim came those whose root was in Amalek; After thee was Benjamin among thy peoples. Out of Machir came down governors, And out of Zebulun they that handled the staff of the ruler. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the princes in Issachar were with Deborah; And Issachar, like Barak; They were sent into the valley at his feet. In the divisions of Reuben there were great resolves of heart! <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, To hear the bleating of the flocks? In the divisions of Reuben there were great deliberations of heart! <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Gilead abode beyond Jordan; And Dan, why did he remain in ships? Asher sat on the sea-shore, And abode in his creeks. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Zebulun is a people that jeoparded their lives unto death, Naphtali also, on the high places of the field. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Kings came, --they fought; Then fought the kings of Canaan; At Taanach, by the waters of Megiddo; They took no spoil of silver. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> From heaven was the fight; The stars from their courses fought with Sisera. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The torrent of Kishon swept them away, That ancient torrent, the torrent Kishon. My soul, thou hast trodden down strength! <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then did the horse-hoofs clatter with the coursings, The coursings of their steeds. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Curse Meroz, saith the Angel of Jehovah; Curse, curse the inhabitants thereof; For they came not to the help of Jehovah, To the help of Jehovah among the mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite be, Blessed above women in the tent! <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He asked water, she gave milk; In the nobles' bowl she brought forth cream. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> She put her hand to the tent-pin, And her right hand to the workmen's hammer; And she smote Sisera, she struck through his head, Shattered and pierced through his temples. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Between her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down: Between her feet he bowed, he fell; Where he bowed, there he fell, overcome. <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Them other of Sisera looketh out at the window, And crieth through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why tarry the trampings of his chariots? <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The wise amongst her ladies answer her, Yea, she returneth answer to herself, <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Have they not found, divided the booty, A damsel, two damsels, to each? A booty of dyed stuffs for Sisera, A booty of dyed stuffs of embroidery, Dyed stuff of double embroidery for the neck of a spoiler? <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So let all thine enemies perish, Jehovah! But let them that love him be as the rising of the sun in its might. And the land had rest forty years.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>