<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ruth 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ruth 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Boaz went up to the gate, and sat down there. And behold, he that had the right of redemption, of whom Boaz had spoken, came by. And he said, Thou, such a one, turn aside, sit down here. And he turned aside and sat down. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit down here. And they sat down. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said to him that had the right of redemption: Naomi, who is come back out of the country of Moab, sells the allotment that was our brother Elimelech's. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I thought I would apprise thee of it and say, Buy it in the presence of the inhabitants, and in the presence of the elders of my people. If thou wilt redeem it, redeem; but if thou wilt not redeem, tell me, that I may know; for there is none to redeem besides thee; and I am after thee. And he said, I will redeem it. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Boaz said, On the day thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi, thou must buy it also of Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he that had the right of redemption said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar mine own inheritance. Redeem thou for thyself what I should redeem, for I cannot redeem it. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now this was the custom in former time in Israel concerning redemption and concerning exchange, to confirm the whole matter: a man drew off his sandal, and gave it to his neighbour, and this was the mode of attestation in Israel. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he that had the right of redemption said to Boaz, Buy for thyself; and he drew off his sandal.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Boaz said to the elders and all the people, Ye are witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelech's, and all that was Chilion's and Mahlon's, of the hand of Naomi; <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren and from the gate of his place: ye are witnesses this day. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And all the people that were in the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. Jehovah make the woman that cometh into thy house like Rachel and like Leah, which two did build the house of Israel; and acquire power in Ephratah, and make thyself a name in Bethlehem; <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and let thy house become like the house of Pherez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, of the seed which Jehovah shall give thee of this young woman.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife; and he went in unto her, and Jehovah gave her conception, and she bore a son. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the women said to Naomi, Blessed be Jehovah who hath not left thee this day without one that has the right of redemption, and may his name be famous in Israel! <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he shall be to thee a restorer of thy life, and a nourisher of thine old age; for thy daughter-in-law who loves thee, who is better to thee than seven sons, has borne him. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse to it. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the women her neighbours gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi. And they called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now these are the generations of Pherez. Pherez begot Hezron, <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and Hezron begot Ram, and Ram begot Amminadab, <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Amminadab begot Nahshon, and Nahshon begot Salmon, <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Salmon begot Boaz, and Boaz begot Obed, <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and Obed begot Jesse, and Jesse begot David.</p>

</body>
</html>