<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Nahash the Ammonite came up and encamped against Jabesh-Gilead. And all the men of Jabesh said to Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Nahash the Ammonite said to them, On this condition will I treat with you, that I thrust out all your right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the elders of Jabesh said to him, Allow us seven days, and we will send messengers into all the districts of Israel; and if there be no man to deliver us, we will come out to thee. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the messengers came to Gibeah of Saul and told these words in the ears of the people. And all the people lifted up their voice and wept.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And behold, Saul came after the oxen from the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they related to him the words of the men of Jabesh. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Spirit of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> came upon Saul when he heard those words, and his anger was kindled greatly. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he took a yoke of oxen and cut them in pieces, and sent throughout the territory of Israel by the hand of messengers, saying, Whoever comes not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done to his oxen! And the fear of Jehovah fell on the people, and they came out as one man. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he numbered them in Bezek, and the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they said to the messengers that had come, Thus shall ye say to the men of Jabesh-Gilead: To-morrow ye shall have deliverance when the sun is hot. And the messengers came and informed the men of Jabesh-Gilead; and they were glad. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the men of Jabesh said, To-morrow we will come out to you, and ye may do with us according to all that is good in your sight. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass the next day that Saul set the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch, and smote Ammon until the heat of the day: and it came to pass that they who remained were scattered, and not two of them were left together.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the people said to Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day; for to-day Jehovah has wrought deliverance in Israel. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Samuel said to the people, Come and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before Jehovah in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed peace-offerings before Jehovah. And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>