<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass in those days that the Philistines gathered together their armies for warfare to fight against Israel. And Achish said to David, Know thou assuredly that thou shalt go out with me to the camp, thou and thy men. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And David said to Achish, Thereby thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Achish said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of my person for ever. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> (Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and they had buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away the necromancers and the soothsayers out of the land.) <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and encamped in Shunem; and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they encamped in Gilboa. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when Saul saw the camp of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Saul inquired of Jehovah; but Jehovah did not answer him, either by dreams, or by Urim, or by prophets.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then said Saul to his servants, Seek me a woman that has a spirit of Python, that I may go to her and inquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman who has a spirit of Python at En-dor. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Saul disguised himself, and put on other garments, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night; and he said, I pray thee, divine to me by the spirit of Python, and bring me him up whom I shall name to thee. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the woman said to him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul has done, how he has cut off the necromancers and the soothsayers out of the land; and why layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die? <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Saul swore unto her by Jehovah, saying, As Jehovah liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thee for this thing. <a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up to thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel. <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice; and the woman spoke to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? Even thou art Saul. <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the king said to her, Be not afraid; but what didst thou see? And the woman said to Saul, I saw a god ascending out of the earth. <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he said to her, What is his form? And she said, An old man comes up; and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul said, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is departed from me, and answers me no more, neither by prophets nor by dreams; therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known to me what I shall do. <a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Samuel said, Why then dost thou inquire of me, seeing Jehovah is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy? <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jehovah has done for himself as he spoke by me; and Jehovah has rent the kingdom out of thy hand, and given it to thy neighbour, to David. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Because thou didst not hearken to the voice of Jehovah, and didst not execute his fierce anger upon Amalek, therefore has Jehovah done this thing to thee this day. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Jehovah will also give Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines; and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me; the army of Israel also will Jehovah give into the hand of the Philistines.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Saul fell straightway his full length on the earth, and was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel; and there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no bread all the day nor all the night. <a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the woman came to Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said to him, Behold, thy bondmaid has hearkened to thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened to thy words which thou spokest to me. <a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And now, I pray thee, hearken thou also to the voice of thy bondmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength when thou goest on thy way. <a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he refused and said, I will not eat. Then his servants, and the woman also, compelled him, and he hearkened to their voice; and he arose from the earth and sat on the bed. <a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted and killed it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and baked unleavened bread thereof; <a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and she brought it near before Saul, and before his servants, and they ate. And they rose up and went away that night.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>