<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when David was a little past the summit, behold, Ziba, Mephibosheth's servant, met him, with a couple of asses saddled, and upon them two hundred loaves of bread, and a hundred raisin-cakes, and a hundred cakes of summer fruits, and a flask of wine. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the king said to Ziba, What meanest thou by these? And Ziba said, The asses are for the king's household to ride on; and the bread and summer fruits for the young men to eat; and the wine, that such as are faint in the wilderness may drink. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the king said, And where is thy master's son? And Ziba said to the king, Behold, he abides at Jerusalem; for he said, To-day shall the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the king said to Ziba, Behold, thine are all that pertained to Mephibosheth. And Ziba said, I humbly bow myself: may I find favour in thy sight, my lord, O king.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when king David came to Bahurim, behold, there came out from thence a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera: he came forth, and cursed, <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and cast stones at David, and at all the servants of king David; and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thus said Shimei as he cursed: Away, away, thou man of blood and man of Belial! <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah has returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned; and Jehovah has given the kingdom into the hand of Absalom thy son; and behold, thou art taken in thine own evil, for thou art a man of blood. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zeruiah? so let him curse, for Jehovah has said to him, Curse David! Who shall then say, Why dost thou so? <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, who came forth of my bowels, seeks my life: how much more now a Benjaminite? let him alone and let him curse; for Jehovah has bidden him. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It may be that Jehovah will look on mine affliction, and that Jehovah will requite me good for my being cursed this day. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And David and his men went by the way; and Shimei went along on the hill's side over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the king, and all the people that were with him, came weary, and refreshed themselves there.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now Absalom, and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it came to pass, when Hushai the Archite, David's friend, came to Absalom, that Hushai said to Absalom, Long live the king! Long live the king! <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? why didst thou not go with thy friend? <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Hushai said to Absalom, No; but whom Jehovah, and this people, and all the men of Israel choose, his will I be, and with him will I abide. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And again, whom should I serve? should it not be in the presence of his son? as I have served in thy father's presence, so will I be in thy presence. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Absalom said to Ahithophel, Give counsel among you what we shall do. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Ahithophel said to Absalom, Go in to thy father's concubines, whom he has left to keep the house; and all Israel shall hear that thou art become odious with thy father; and the hands of all that are with thee shall be strong. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So they spread a tent for Absalom upon the roof; and Absalom went in to his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he counselled in those days, was as if a man had inquired of the word of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> so was all the counsel of Ahithophel both with David and with Absalom.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>