<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And king Solomon was king over all Israel. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And these are the princes whom he had: Azariah the son of Zadok was priest; <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Elihoreph and Ahiah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, chronicler; <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the host; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests; <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and Azariah the son of Nathan was over the superintendents; and Zabud the son of Nathan was principal officer, the king's friend; <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Ahishar was over the household; and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the levy-service. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Solomon had twelve superintendents over all Israel; and they provided food for the king and his household: each man his month in the year had to make provision. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And these are their names: Ben-Hur, in mount Ephraim. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ben-Deker in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Beth-shemesh, and Elon-Beth-hanan. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ben-Hesed, in Arubboth; he had Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ben-Abinadab had all the upland of Dor; Taphath the daughter of Solomon was his wife. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Baana the son of Ahilud had Taanach and Megiddo, and all Beth-shean, which is by Zaretan beneath Jizreel, from Beth-shean to Abel-Meholah, as far as beyond Jokneam. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ben-Geber, in Ramoth-Gilead; he had the villages of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead; he had the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bars of bronze. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Ahinadab the son of Iddo, at Mahanaim. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ahimaaz, in Nephtali; he also took Basmath the daughter of Solomon as wife. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Baanah the son of Hushai, in Asher and in Aloth. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the land of Sihon the king of the Amorites, and of Og the king of Bashan; and he was the only superintendent that was in the land.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Judah and Israel were many, as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking and making merry. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Solomon ruled over all kingdoms from the river to the land of the Philistines, and as far as the border of Egypt: they brought presents, and served Solomon all the days of his life. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and sixty measures of meal, <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> ten fatted oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and a hundred sheep, besides harts, and gazelles, and fallow-deer, and fatted fowl. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he had dominion over all on this side the river, from Tiphsah as far as Gazah, over all the kings on this side the river; and he had peace on all sides round about. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig-tree, from Dan even to Beer-sheba, all the days of Solomon. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And those officers provided food for king Solomon, and for all who came to king Solomon's table, every man in his month: they let nothing be wanting. <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the barley, and the straw for the horses and coursers, they brought to the place where the superintendents were, every man according to his charge.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> gave Solomon wisdom and very great understanding and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea-shore. <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the sons of the east, and all the wisdom of Egypt. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol; and his fame was in all the nations round about. <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he spoke three thousand proverbs; and his songs were a thousand and five. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he spoke of the trees, from the cedar-tree that is on Lebanon even to the hyssop that springs out of the wall; he spoke also of cattle, and of fowls, and of creeping things, and of fishes. <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And there came of all peoples to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all the kings of the earth who had heard of his wisdom.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>