<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass in the four hundred and eightieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the month Zif, which is the second month, that he began to build the house of Jehovah. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the house that king Solomon built for Jehovah was sixty cubits in length, and twenty in breadth, and thirty cubits in height. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the porch, in front of the temple of the house, was twenty cubits in length, in front of the house broadways, and ten cubits was its breadth, in front of the house. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And for the house he made closed windows with fixed lattices. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And against the wall of the house he built floors round about, against the walls of the house, round about the temple and the oracle; and he made side-chambers round about. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The lowest floor was five cubits broad, and the middle one was six cubits broad, and the third was seven cubits broad; for in the thickness of the wall of the house he made resets round about outside, that nothing should be fastened in the walls of the house. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the house, when it was being built, was built of stone entirely made ready before it was brought thither; so that there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house while it was being built. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The entrance to the side-chambers of the middle floor was in the right side of the house; and they went up by winding stairs into the middle floor, and out of the middle into the third. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he built the house, and finished it; and covered the house with beams and boards of cedar. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he built the floors against all the house, five cubits high; and they held to the house by the timbers of cedar.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the word of Jehovah came to Solomon saying, <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As to this house which thou art building, if thou wilt walk in my statutes, and practise mine ordinances, and keep all my commandments to walk in them, then will I perform my word as to thee which I spoke unto David thy father; <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Solomon built the house and finished it.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar, from the floor of the house to the walls of the roof; he overlaid them on the inside with wood, and overlaid the floor of the house with boards of cypress. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he built twenty cubits of the innermost part of the house, both floor and walls, with boards of cedar; and he built them for it within, to be the oracle, the most holy place. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the house, that is, the temple before it, was forty cubits long. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the cedar of the house within was carved with colocynths and half-open flowers: all was cedar; there was no stone seen. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he prepared the oracle in the midst of the house within, to set there the ark of the covenant of Jehovah. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the oracle within was twenty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in breadth, and twenty cubits in the height thereof; and he overlaid it with pure gold; and he overlaid the cedar-wood altar-- <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold, and shut off the oracle in front with chains of gold, and overlaid it with gold. <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the whole house he overlaid with gold, the whole house entirely; also the whole altar that was by the oracle he overlaid with gold. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he made in the oracle two cherubim of olive-wood, ten cubits high; <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and one wing of the cherub was five cubits, and five cubits the other wing of the cherub, ten cubits from the end of one wing to the end of the other wing; <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and the other cherub was ten cubits: both the cherubim were of one measure and one form. <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so of the other cherub. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he set the cherubim in the midst of the inner house; and the wings of the cherubim were stretched forth, so that the wing of the one touched the wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the other wall; and their wings touched, wing to wing, in the midst of the house. <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he overlaid the cherubim with gold. <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he carved all the walls of the house round about with carved sculptures of cherubim, and palm-trees, and half-open flowers, within and without. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the floor of the house he overlaid with gold, within and without. <a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And for the entrance of the oracle he made doors of olive-wood: the lintel and side posts were the fifth part of the breadth of the house. <a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The two doors were of olive-wood; and he carved on them carvings of cherubim, and palm-trees and half-open flowers, and overlaid them with gold, and spread gold on the cherubim and on the palm-trees. <a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he also made for the doorway of the temple posts of olive-wood, of the fourth part of the breadth of the house. <a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the two folding-doors were of cypress-wood: the two leaves of the one door were folding, and the two leaves of the other door were folding. <a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he carved on them cherubim, and palm-trees, and half-open flowers; and overlaid them with gold fitted on the carved work. <a id="c6_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he built the inner court of three rows of hewn stone, and a row of cedar-beams. <a id="c6_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> In the fourth year was the foundation of the house of Jehovah laid, in the month Zif; <a id="c6_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and in the eleventh year, in the month Bul, which is the eighth month, was the house finished in all its parts, and according to all the fashion of it. So he was seven years in building it.</p>

</body>
</html>