<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass after these things, that Naboth the Jizreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jizreel, by the side of the palace of Ahab king of Samaria. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Ahab spoke to Naboth saying, Give me thy vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs, for it is near, by the side of my house; and I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it; if it seem good to thee, I will give thee its value in money. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Naboth said to Ahab, Jehovah forbid it me, that I should give the inheritance of my fathers to thee! <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Ahab came into his house sullen and vexed because of the word that Naboth the Jizreelite had spoken to him; for he had said, I will not give thee the inheritance of my fathers. And he lay down on his bed, and turned away his face, and ate no bread.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jezebel his wife came to him, and said to him, Why is thy spirit sullen, and thou eatest no bread? <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said to her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jizreelite and said to him, Give me thy vineyard for money; or else, if it please thee, I will give thee a vineyard for it; and he said, I will not give thee my vineyard. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jezebel his wife said to him, Dost thou now exercise sovereignty over Israel? arise, eat bread, and let thy heart be glad: I will give thee the vineyard of Naboth the Jizreelite. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And she wrote a letter in Ahab's name, and sealed it with his seal, and sent the letter to the elders and to the nobles that were in his city, dwelling with Naboth. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And she wrote in the letter saying, Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth at the head of the people; <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and set two men, sons of Belial, before him, and they shall bear witness against him saying, Thou didst curse God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and the king; and carry him out, and stone him, that he may die. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the men of his city, the elders and the nobles that dwelt in his city, did as Jezebel had sent to them, as it was written in the letter that she had sent to them: <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> they proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth at the head of the people. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And there came the two men, sons of Belial, and sat before him; and the men of Belial witnessed against him, against Naboth, in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth blasphemed God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and the king. And they carried him forth out of the city, and stoned him with stones, that he died. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they sent to Jezebel saying, Naboth is stoned, and is dead. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jizreelite, which he refused to give thee for money; for Naboth is not alive, but dead. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it came to pass when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jizreelite, to take possession of it.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the word of Jehovah came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, who is in Samaria: behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, whither he is gone down to take possession of it. <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And thou shalt speak unto him saying, Thus saith Jehovah: Hast thou killed, and also taken possession? And thou shalt speak unto him saying, Thus saith Jehovah: In the place where the dogs licked the blood of Naboth shall the dogs lick thy blood, even thine. <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou found me, mine enemy? And he said, I have found thee; because thou hast sold thyself to do evil in the sight of Jehovah. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Behold, I will bring evil upon thee, and will take away thy posterity, and will cut off from Ahab every male, and him that is shut up and left in Israel; <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and I will make thy house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah, for the provocation wherewith thou hast provoked me to anger, and made Israel to sin. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And of Jezebel also spoke Jehovah saying, The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the moat of Jizreel. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Him that dieth of Ahab in the city shall the dogs eat, and him that dieth in the field shall the fowl of the heavens eat. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> (Surely there was none like to Ahab, who did sell himself to do evil in the sight of Jehovah, Jezebel his wife urging him on. <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he did very abominably in following idols, according to all that the Amorites did, whom Jehovah had dispossessed before the children of Israel.) <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it came to pass when Ahab heard these words, that he rent his garments, and put sackcloth upon his flesh, and fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went softly. <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the word of Jehovah came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Seest thou how Ahab humbleth himself before me? because he humbleth himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days: in his son's days will I bring the evil upon his house.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>