<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Kings 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Kings 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel, began Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, to reign. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem; and his mother's name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he did what was right in the sight of Jehovah, yet not like David his father: he did according to all that Joash his father had done. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Only, the high places were not removed: the people still sacrificed and burned incense on the high places. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it came to pass when the kingdom was established in his hand, that he slew his servants who had smitten the king his father. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But the children of those that smote him he did not put to death; according to that which is written in the book of the law of Moses, wherein Jehovah commanded saying, The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers; but every man shall be put to death for his own sin. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He smote of Edom in the valley of salt ten thousand, and took Sela in the war, and called the name of it Joktheel to this day.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz, son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the face. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehoash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thorn-bush that is in Lebanon sent to the cedar that is in Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son as wife; and there passed by the wild beast that is in Lebanon, and trode down the thorn-bush. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou hast indeed smitten Edom, and thy heart has lifted thee up: boast thyself, and abide at home; for why shouldest thou contend with misfortune, that thou shouldest fall, thou, and Judah with thee? <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But Amaziah would not hear. And Jehoash king of Israel went up; and they looked one another in the face, he and Amaziah king of Judah, at Beth-shemesh, which is in Judah. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Judah was routed before Israel; and they fled every man to his tent. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash son of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh, and came to Jerusalem, and broke down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner-gate, four hundred cubits. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he took all the gold and the silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of Jehovah, and in the treasures of the king's house, and hostages, and returned to Samaria.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the rest of the acts of Jehoash, what he did, and his might, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jehoash slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel; and Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel, fifteen years. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled to Lachish; and they sent after him to Lachish, and slew him there. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they brought him on horses, and he was buried at Jerusalem with his fathers, in the city of David. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And all the people of Judah took Azariah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It was he that built Elath, and restored it to Judah, after the king slept with his fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, began to reign in Samaria, for forty-one years. <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he did evil in the sight of Jehovah: he departed not from any of the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin. <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He restored the border of Israel from the entrance of Hamath as far as the sea of the plain, according to the word of Jehovah the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel, which he had spoken through his servant Jonah the prophet, the son of Amittai, who was of Gath-Hepher. <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For Jehovah saw that the affliction of Israel was very bitter; and that there was not any shut up, nor any left, nor any helper for Israel. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Jehovah had not said that he would blot out the name of Israel from under the heavens; and he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and his might, how he warred, and how he recovered for Israel that which had belonged to Judah in Damascus and in Hamath, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel? <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, with the kings of Israel; and Zechariah his son reigned in his stead.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>