<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass after this that Nahash king of the children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his stead. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And David said, I will shew kindness to Hanun the son of Nahash, because his father shewed kindness to me. And David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. And David's servants came into the land of the children of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort him. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, Is it, in thine eyes, to honour thy father that David has sent comforters to thee? Is it not to search and overthrow, and to spy out the land that his servants are come to thee? <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Hanun took David's servants, and had them shaved, and their raiment cut off in the midst, as far as the hip, and sent them away. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And certain went and told David concerning the men; and he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Abide at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then return.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David; and Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out of Mesopotamia, and from the Syrians of Maacah, and from Zobah. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they hired thirty-two thousand chariots, and the king of Maacah and his people; and they came and encamped before Medeba. And the children of Ammon gathered together from their cities, and came to battle. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And David heard of it, and he sent Joab, and all the host, the mighty men. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array at the entrance of the city; and the kings that had come were by themselves on the field. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before and behind; and he chose out of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in array against the Syrians; <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the rest of the people he gave into the hand of Abishai his brother, and they set themselves in array against the children of Ammon. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou shalt help me; and if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee, then I will help thee. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be strong, and let us shew ourselves valiant for our people, and for the cities of our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and Jehovah will do what is good in his sight. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Joab and the people that were with him drew near in front of the Syrians to the battle; and they fled before him. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians fled, they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into the city. And Joab came to Jerusalem. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when the Syrians saw that they were routed before Israel, they sent messengers, and drew forth the Syrians that were beyond the river; and Shophach the captain of the host of Hadarezer went before them. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it was told David; and he gathered all Israel, and passed over the Jordan, and came upon them, and set the battle in array against them. And David put the battle in array against the Syrians, and they fought with him. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the Syrians fled from before Israel; and David slew of the Syrians seven thousand in chariots, and forty thousand footmen, and slew Shophach the captain of the host. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were routed before Israel, and they made peace with David, and became his servants. And the Syrians would no more help the children of Ammon.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>