<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened himself against Israel. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he placed forces in all the fortified cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim that Asa his father had taken. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jehovah was with Jehoshaphat, for he walked in the first ways of his father David, and sought not unto the Baals; <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but he sought the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not after the doings of Israel. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah established the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah gave gifts to Jehoshaphat; and he had riches and honour in abundance. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he took courage in the ways of Jehovah; moreover, he removed the high places and Asherahs out of Judah. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And in the third year of his reign he sent his princes, Ben-hail, and Obadiah, and Zechariah, and Nethaneel, and Micah, to teach in the cities of Judah; <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and with them the Levites: Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tob-Adonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, the priests. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of Jehovah with them; and they went about through all the cities of Judah, and taught among the people.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the terror of Jehovah was upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah, and they made no war against Jehoshaphat. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat gifts and tribute-silver. The Arabians also brought him flocks, seven thousand seven hundred rams, and seven thousand seven hundred he-goats. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jehoshaphat waxed exceeding great; and he built in Judah castles and store-cities. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he had much business in the cities of Judah; and men of war, strong and valiant, in Jerusalem. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And these are the numbers of them according to their fathers' houses. Of Judah the captains of thousands: Adnah the captain, and with him three hundred thousand mighty men of valour; <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and next to him was Johanan the captain, and with him two hundred and eighty thousand; <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and next to him, Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself to Jehovah; and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valour. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And of Benjamin: Eliada, a mighty man of valour, and with him two hundred thousand, armed with bow and shield; <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and next to him was Jehozabad, and with him a hundred and eighty thousand ready prepared for war. <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These were they that waited on the king, besides those that the king had put in the fortified cities throughout Judah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>