<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nehemiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nehemiah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren the priests, and they built the sheep-gate. They hallowed it, and set up its doors; and they hallowed it even to the tower of Meah, to the tower of Hananeel. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And next to them built the men of Jericho. And next to them built Zaccur the son of Imri. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the fish-gate did the sons of Senaah build: they laid its beams, and set up its doors, its locks and its bars. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And next to them repaired Meremoth the son of Urijah, the son of Koz. And next to them repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabeel. And next to them repaired Zadok the son of Baana. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And next to them the Tekoites repaired; but their nobles put not their necks to the work of their Lord. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the gate of the old wall repaired Jehoiada the son of Paseah, and Meshullam the son of Besodiah; they laid its beams, and set up its doors, and its locks, and its bars. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And next to them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, to the seat of the governor on this side the river. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Next to them repaired Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, of the goldsmiths; and next to him repaired Hananiah of the perfumers, and they left Jerusalem in its state as far as the broad wall. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And next to them repaired Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And next to them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, even over against his house. And next to him repaired Hattush the son of Hashabniah. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Malchijah the son of Harim and Hasshub the son of Pahath-Moab repaired a second piece, and the tower of the furnaces. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And next to them repaired Shallum the son of Hallohesh, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem, he and his daughters. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The valley-gate repaired Hanun, and the inhabitants of Zanoah; they built it, and set up its doors, its locks and its bars, and a thousand cubits of the wall as far as the dung-gate. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the dung-gate repaired Malchijah the son of Rechab, the chief of the district of Beth-haccerem; he built it, and set up its doors, its locks and its bars. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the fountain-gate repaired Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the chief of the district of Mizpah; he built it, and covered it, and set up its doors, its locks and its bars, and the wall of the pool of Shelah by the king's garden, and to the stairs that go down from the city of David. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> After him repaired Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the chief of the half district of Beth-zur, even over against the sepulchres of David, and to the pool that was made, and to the house of the mighty men. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> After him repaired the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani. Next to him repaired Hashabiah, the chief of the half district of Keilah, for his district. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> After him repaired their brethren, Bavvai the son of Henadad, the chief of the half district of Keilah. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And next to him repaired Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, a second piece over against the going up to the armoury at the angle. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> After him Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired another piece, from the angle to the entry of the house of Eliashib the high priest. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> After him repaired Meremoth the son of Urijah, the son of Koz, another piece, from the door of the house of Eliashib as far as the end of the house of Eliashib. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And after him repaired the priests, the men of the plain of Jordan. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> After them repaired Benjamin and Hasshub over against their house. After them repaired Azariah the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ananiah, by his house. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> After him repaired Binnui the son of Henadad another piece, from the house of Azariah to the angle, as far as the corner. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Palal the son of Uzai, over against the angle, and the high tower that lies out from the king's house, which was by the court of the prison. After him, Pedaiah the son of Parosh. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> (Now the Nethinim dwelt in Ophel, even over against the water-gate toward the east, and the tower which lies out.) <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> After him the Tekoites repaired a second piece, over against the great tower which lies out, as far as the wall of Ophel. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> From above the horse-gate repaired the priests, every one over against his house. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> After them repaired Zadok the son of Immer over against his house. And after him repaired also Shemaiah the son of Shechaniah, the keeper of the east gate. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> After him repaired Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, a second piece. After them repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah over against his chamber. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> After him repaired Malchijah of the goldsmiths to the place of the Nethinim and of the dealers, over against the gate Miphkad, and to the ascent of the corner. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And between the ascent of the corner and the sheep-gate repaired the goldsmiths and the dealers.</p>

</body>
</html>