<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Esther 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Esther 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things king Ahasuerus promoted Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and advanced him, and set his seat above all the princes that were with him. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And all the king's servants that were in the king's gate bowed and did Haman reverence, for the king had so commanded concerning him. But Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then the king's servants, who were in the king's gate, said to Mordecai, Why transgressest thou the king's commandment? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it came to pass as they spoke daily to him, and he hearkened not to them, that they informed Haman, to see whether Mordecai's matters would stand; for he had told them that he was a Jew. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when Haman saw that Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence, Haman was full of fury. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he scorned to lay hands on Mordecai alone; for they had made known to him the people of Mordecai; therefore Haman sought to destroy all the Jews that were in all the kingdom of Ahasuerus--the people of Mordecai.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the first month, that is, the month Nisan, in the twelfth year of king Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman for each day and for each month, to the twelfth month, that is, the month Adar. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Haman said to king Ahasuerus, There is a people scattered abroad and dispersed among the peoples in all the provinces of thy kingdom; and their laws are diverse from those of every people, and they keep not the king's laws; and it is not for the king's profit to suffer them. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If it please the king, let it be written that they may be destroyed, and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver into the hands of those that have charge of the affairs, to bring it into the king's treasuries. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the king took his ring from his hand, and gave it to Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews' enemy. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the king said to Haman, The silver is given to thee, the people also, to do with them as seems good to thee. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then were the king's scribes called, in the first month, on the thirteenth day of the month, and there was written according to all that Haman commanded unto the king's satraps, and to the governors over every province, and to the princes of every people; to every province according to the writing thereof, and to every people according to their language: in the name of king Ahasuerus was it written, and sealed with the king's ring. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the letters were sent by couriers into all the king's provinces, to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, upon the thirteenth of the twelfth month, that is, the month Adar, and to take the spoil of them for a prey. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> That the decree might be given in every province, a copy of the writing was published to all peoples, that they should be ready against that day. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The couriers went out, being hastened by the king's commandment, and the decree was given in Shushan the fortress. And the king and Haman sat down to drink; but the city of Shushan was in consternation.</p>

</body>
</html>