<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answered and said, <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Truly ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you! <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I also have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you; and who knoweth not such things as these? <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I am to be one that is a derision to his friend, I who call upon +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and whom he will answer: a derision is the just upright man. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He that is ready to stumble with the foot is a lamp despised in the thought of him that is at ease.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The tents of desolators are in peace, and they that provoke ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> are secure; into whose hand +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> bringeth. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the fowl of the heavens, and they shall tell thee; <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee; and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who knoweth not in all these, that the hand of Jehovah hath wrought this? <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the spirit of all flesh of man. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Doth not the ear try words, as the palate tasteth food?</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> With the aged is wisdom, and in length of days understanding. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With him is wisdom and might; he hath counsel and understanding. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, he breaketh down, and it is not built again; he shutteth up a man, and there is no opening. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up; and he sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With him is strength and effectual knowledge; the deceived and the deceiver are his. <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He leadeth counsellors away spoiled, and judges maketh he fools; <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He weakeneth the government of kings, and bindeth their loins with a fetter; <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He leadeth priests away spoiled, and overthroweth the mighty; <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He depriveth of speech the trusty, and taketh away the judgment of the elders; <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He poureth contempt upon nobles, and slackeneth the girdle of the mighty; <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth out into light the shadow of death; <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them; he spreadeth out the nations, and bringeth them in; <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He taketh away the understanding of the chiefs of the people of the earth, and causeth them to wander in a pathless waste. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them to stagger like a drunkard.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>