<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Call, I pray thee! Is there any that answereth thee? and to which of the holy ones wilt thou turn? <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For vexation killeth the foolish man, and envy slayeth the simple. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I myself saw the foolish taking root, but suddenly I cursed his habitation. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> His children are far from safety, and they are crushed in the gate, and there is no deliverer: <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, and taketh even out of the thorns; and the snare gapeth for his substance.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For evil cometh not forth from the dust, neither doth trouble spring out of the ground; <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For man is born to trouble, as the sparks fly upwards. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But as for me I will seek unto ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and unto God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> commit my cause; <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who doeth great things and unsearchable, marvellous things without number; <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who giveth rain on the face of the earth, and sendeth waters on the face of the fields; <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Setting up on high those that are low; and mourners are exalted to prosperity. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, and their hands carry not out the enterprise. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He taketh the wise in their own craftiness; and the counsel of the wily is carried headlong: <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They meet with darkness in the daytime, and grope at midday as in the night. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he saveth the needy from the sword, from their mouth, and from the hand of the mighty. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So the poor hath what he hopeth for, and unrighteousness stoppeth her mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Behold, happy is the man whom +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> correcteth; therefore despise not the chastening of the Almighty. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he maketh sore, and bindeth up; he woundeth, and his hands make whole. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will deliver thee in six troubles, and in seven there shall no evil touch thee. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In famine he will redeem thee from death, and in war from the power of the sword. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou shalt be hidden from the scourge of the tongue; and thou shalt not be afraid of destruction when it cometh. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh, and of the beasts of the earth thou shalt not be afraid. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field, and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And thou shalt know that thy tent is in peace; and thou wilt survey thy fold, and miss nothing. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And thou shalt know that thy seed is numerous, and thine offspring as the herb of the earth. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Thou shalt come to the grave in a ripe age, as a shock of corn is brought in in its season. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Behold this, we have searched it out, so it is; hear it, and know thou it for thyself.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>