<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answered and said, <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have heard many such things: grievous comforters are ye all. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Shall words of wind have an end? or what provoketh thee that thou answerest? <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I also could speak as ye: if your soul were in my soul's stead, I could join together words against you, and shake my head at you; <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I would encourage you with my mouth, and the solace of my lips should assuage your pain.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If I speak, my pain is not assuaged; and if I forbear, what am I eased? <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But now he hath made me weary; ...thou hast made desolate all my family; <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast shrivelled me up! it is become a witness; and my leanness riseth up against me, it beareth witness to my face. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> His anger teareth and pursueth me; he gnasheth with his teeth against me; as mine adversary he sharpeneth his eyes at me. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They gape upon me with their mouth; they smite my cheeks reproachfully; they range themselves together against me. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> hath delivered me over to the iniquitous man, and hurled me into the hands of the wicked. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I was at rest, but he hath shattered me; he hath taken me by the neck and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for his mark. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His arrows encompass me round about, he cleaveth my reins asunder and doth not spare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He breaketh me with breach upon breach; he runneth upon me like a mighty man. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and rolled my horn in the dust. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My face is red with weeping, and on my eyelids is the shadow of death;</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Although there is no violence in my hands, and my prayer is pure. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> O earth, cover not my blood, and let there be no place for my cry! <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Even now, behold, my Witness is in the heavens, and he that voucheth for me is in the heights. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My friends are my mockers; mine eye poureth out tears unto +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Oh that there were arbitration for a man with +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> as a son of man for his friend! <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For years few in number shall pass, --and I shall go the way whence I shall not return.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>