<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answered and said, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Of a truth I know it is so; but how can man be just with ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If he shall choose to strive with him, he cannot answer him one thing of a thousand. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He is wise in heart and mighty in strength: who hath hardened himself against him, and had peace? <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who removeth mountains, and they know it not, when he overturneth them in his anger; <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who shaketh the earth out of its place, and the pillars thereof tremble; <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who commandeth the sun, and it riseth not, and he sealeth up the stars; <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the high waves of the sea; <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who maketh the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades, and the chambers of the south; <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who doeth great things past finding out, and wonders without number. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not; and he passeth along, and I perceive him not. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, he taketh away: who will hinder him? Who will say unto him, What doest thou? <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> withdraweth not his anger; the proud helpers stoop under him:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> How much less shall I answer him, choose out my words to strive with him? <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not answer; I would make supplication to my judge. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If I had called, and he had answered me, I would not believe that he hearkened to my voice, -- <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He, who crusheth me with a tempest, and multiplieth my wounds without cause. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He suffereth me not to take my breath, for he filleth me with bitternesses. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Be it a question of strength, lo, he is strong; and be it of judgment, who will set me a time? <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If I justified myself, mine own mouth would condemn me; were I perfect, he would prove me perverse. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Were I perfect, yet would I not know my soul: I would despise my life.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It is all one; therefore I said, he destroyeth the perfect and the wicked. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If the scourge kill suddenly, he mocketh at the trial of the innocent. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The earth is given over into the hand of the wicked man; he covereth the faces of its judges. If not, who then is it?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And my days are swifter than a runner: they flee away, they see no good. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They pass by like skiffs of reed; as an eagle that swoops upon the prey. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will leave off my sad countenance, and brighten up, <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I am afraid of all my sorrows; I know that thou wilt not hold me innocent. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Be it that I am wicked, why then do I labour in vain? <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If I washed myself with snow-water, and cleansed my hands in purity, <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then wouldest thou plunge me in the ditch, and mine own clothes would abhor me. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him; that we should come together in judgment. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> There is not an umpire between us, who should lay his hand upon us both. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his terror make me afraid, <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Then I will speak, and not fear him; but it is not so with me.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>