<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Howbeit, Job, I pray thee, hear mine utterances, and hearken to all my words. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Behold now, I have opened my mouth, my tongue speaketh in my palate, <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart, and my lips shall utter knowledge purely. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Spirit of 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou canst, answer me; array thy words before me: take thy stand. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, before 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> I am as thou; I also am formed out of the clay. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, nor my burden be heavy upon thee.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Surely thou hast spoken in my hearing, and I have heard the voice of thy words: -- <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I am clean without transgression; I am pure, and there is no iniquity in me; <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Lo, he findeth occasions of hostility against me, he counteth me for his enemy; <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my paths. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, I will answer thee in this, thou art not right; for +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> is greater than man. <a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of any of his matters.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> speaketh once, and twice, -- and man perceiveth it not-- <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumberings upon the bed; <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then he openeth men's ears, and sealeth their instruction, <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> That he may withdraw man from his work, and hide pride from man. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from passing away by the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and with constant strife in his bones; <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And his life abhorreth bread, and his soul dainty food; <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His flesh is consumed away from view, and his bones that were not seen stick out; <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And his soul draweth near to the pit, and his life to the destroyers. <a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If there be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one among a thousand, to shew unto man his duty; <a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then he will be gracious unto him, and say, Deliver him from going down to the pit: I have found a ransom. <a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> His flesh shall be fresher than in childhood; he shall return to the days of his youth. <a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He shall pray unto +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> and he will receive him with favour; and he shall see his face with shoutings, and he will render unto man his righteousness. <a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He will sing before men, and say, I have sinned, and perverted what was right, and it hath not been requited to me; <a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He hath delivered my soul from going into the pit, and my life shall see the light.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Lo, all these things worketh 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> twice, thrice, with man, <a id="c33_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> To bring back his soul from the pit, that he may be enlightened with the light of the living. <a id="c33_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Mark well, Job, hearken unto me; be silent, and I will speak. <a id="c33_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If thou hast anything to say, answer me; speak, for I desire to justify thee. <a id="c33_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If not, hearken thou unto me; be silent, and I will teach thee wisdom.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>