<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah answered Job and said, <a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Shall he that will contend with the Almighty instruct him? he that reproveth +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> let him answer it. <a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Job answered Jehovah and said, <a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold, I am nought: what shall I answer thee? I will lay my hand upon my mouth. <a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Once have I spoken, and I will not answer; yea twice, but I will proceed no further.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jehovah answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, <a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Gird up now thy loins like a man: I will demand of thee, and inform thou me. <a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wilt thou also annul my judgment? wilt thou condemn me that thou mayest be righteous? <a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hast thou an arm like ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> or canst thou thunder with a voice like him? <a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Deck thyself now with glory and excellency, and clothe thyself with majesty and splendour. <a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Cast abroad the ragings of thine anger, and look on every one that is proud, and abase him: <a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Look on every one that is proud, bring him low, and tread down the wicked in their place: <a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hide them in the dust together; bind their faces in secret. <a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then will I also praise thee, because thy right hand saveth thee.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> See now the behemoth, which I made with thee: he eateth grass as an ox. <a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold now, his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the muscles of his belly. <a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He bendeth his tail like a cedar; the sinews of his thighs are woven together. <a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His bones are tubes of bronze, his members are like bars of iron. <a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He is the chief of ·God's<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> ways: he that made him gave him his sword. <a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the mountains bring him forth food, where all the beasts of the field play. <a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He lieth under lotus-bushes, in the covert of the reed and fen: <a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Lotus-bushes cover him with their shade; the willows of the brook surround him. <a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Lo, the river overfloweth--he startleth not: he is confident though a Jordan break forth against his mouth. <a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shall he be taken in front? will they pierce through his nose in the trap?</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>