<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Elihu answered and said, <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thinkest thou this to be right, that thou saidst, My righteousness is more than ·God's<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> ? <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou hast asked of what profit it is unto thee: what do I gain more than if I had sinned? <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will reply to thee in words, and to thy companions with thee. <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Look unto the heavens and see; and survey the skies: they are higher than thou. <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him? If thy transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him? <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If thou be righteous, what givest thou to him? or what doth he receive of thy hand? <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy wickedness may affect a man as thou art, and thy righteousness a son of man.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By reason of the multitude of oppressions they cry; they cry out by reason of the arm of the mighty: <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But none saith, Where is +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> my Maker, who giveth songs in the night, <a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and maketh us wiser than the fowl of the heavens? <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There they cry, and he answereth not, because of the pride of evil men. <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Surely ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty regard it.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Although thou sayest thou dost not see him, judgment is before him, therefore wait for him. <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But now, because he hath not visited in his anger, doth not Job know his great arrogancy? <a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For Job hath opened his mouth in vanity, and made words abundant without knowledge.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>