<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Bildad the Shuhite answered and said, <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long will ye hunt for words? Be intelligent, and then we will speak. <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed stupid in your sight? <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou that tearest thyself in thine anger, shall the earth be forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out of its place?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the flame of his fire shall not shine. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The light shall become dark in his tent, and his lamp over him shall be put out. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The steps of his strength shall be straitened, and his own counsel shall cast him down. <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he is sent into the net by his own feet, and he walketh on the meshes; <a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The gin taketh him by the heel, the snare layeth hold on him; <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A cord is hidden for him in the ground, and his trap in the way.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Terrors make him afraid on every side, and chase him at his footsteps. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> His strength is hunger-bitten, and calamity is ready at his side. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The firstborn of death devoureth the members of his body; it will devour his members. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His confidence shall be rooted out of his tent, and it shall lead him away to the king of terrors: <a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They who are none of his shall dwell in his tent; brimstone shall be showered upon his habitation: <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch be cut off; <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have no name on the pasture-grounds. <a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He is driven from light into darkness, and chased out of the world. <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He hath neither son nor grandson among his people, nor any remaining in the places of his sojourn. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They that come after shall be astonished at his day, as they that went before them were affrighted. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Surely, such are the dwellings of the unrighteous man, and such the place of him that knoweth not ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> .</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>