<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Man, born of woman, is of few days, and full of trouble. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down; and he fleeth as a shadow, and continueth not. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yet dost thou open thine eyes upon such a one, and bringest me into judgment with thee? <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who can bring a clean man out of the unclean? Not one! <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If his days are determined, if the number of his months is with thee, and thou hast appointed his bounds which he must not pass, <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Look away from him; and let him rest, till he accomplish, as a hireling, his day.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For there is hope for a tree: if it be cut down, it will sprout again, and its tender branch will not cease; <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Though its root grow old in the earth, and its stock die in the ground, <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and put forth boughs like a young plant. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But a man dieth, and is prostrate; yea, man expireth, and where is he? <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The waters recede from the lake, and the river wasteth and drieth up: <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So man lieth down, and riseth not again; till the heavens be no more, they do not awake, nor are raised out of their sleep. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Oh that thou wouldest hide me in Sheol, that thou wouldest keep me secret until thine anger be past, that thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me, -- <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> (If a man die, shall he live again?) all the days of my time of toil would I wait, till my change should come: <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou wouldest call, and I would answer thee; thou wouldest have a desire after the work of thy hands.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my sin? <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou heapest up mine iniquity. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And indeed a mountain falling cometh to nought, and the rock is removed out of its place; <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The waters wear the stones, the floods thereof wash away the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of man. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth away; thou changest his countenance, and dismissest him. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, and he perceiveth it not. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But his flesh hath pain for himself alone, and his soul mourneth for himself.</p>

</body>
</html>