<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job continued his parable and said, <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Oh that I were as in months past, as in the days when +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> preserved me; <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When his lamp shone over my head, and by his light I walked through darkness; <a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As I was in the days of my youth, when the secret counsel of +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> was over my tent, <a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When the Almighty was yet with me, my young men round about me; <a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When my steps were bathed in milk, and the rock poured out beside me rivers of oil! ...</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When I went out to the gate by the city, when I prepared my seat on the broadway, <a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The young men saw me, and hid themselves; and the aged arose and stood up; <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Princes refrained from talking, and laid the hand on their mouth; <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The voice of the nobles was hushed, and their tongue cleaved to their palate. <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When the ear heard me, then it blessed me, and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me; <a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For I delivered the afflicted that cried, and the fatherless who had no helper. <a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The blessing of him that was perishing came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I put on righteousness, and it clothed me; my justice was as a mantle and a turban. <a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame; <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I was a father to the needy, and the cause which I knew not I searched out; <a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I broke the jaws of the unrighteous, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I said, I shall die in my nest, and multiply my days as the sand; <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My root shall be spread out to the waters, and the dew will lie all night on my branch; <a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My glory shall be fresh in me, and my bow be renewed in my hand. <a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Unto me they listened, and waited, and kept silence for my counsel: <a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> After my words they spoke not again, and my speech dropped upon them; <a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they waited for me as for the rain, and they opened their mouth wide as for the latter rain. <a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I laughed on them, they believed it not; and they troubled not the serenity of my countenance. <a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I chose their way, and sat as chief, and dwelt as a king in the army, as one that comforteth mourners.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>