<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My soul is weary of my life: I will give free course to my complaint; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will say unto +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Do not condemn me; shew me wherefore thou strivest with me. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Doth it please thee to oppress, that thou shouldest despise the work of thy hands, and shine upon the counsel of the wicked? <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man seeth? <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Are thy days as the days of a mortal? are thy years as a man's days, <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That thou searchest after mine iniquity, and inquirest into my sin; <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Since thou knowest that I am not wicked, and that there is none that delivereth out of thy hand?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy hands have bound me together and made me as one, round about; yet dost thou swallow me up! <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as clay, and wilt bring me into dust again. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hast thou not poured me out as milk, and curdled me like cheese? <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and knit me together with bones and sinews; <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy care hath preserved my spirit; <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And these things didst thou hide in thy heart; I know that this was with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I sinned, thou wouldest mark me, and thou wouldest not acquit me of mine iniquity. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If I were wicked, woe unto me! and righteous, I will not lift up my head, being so full of shame, and beholding mine affliction; -- <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it increaseth: thou huntest me as a fierce lion; and ever again thou shewest thy marvellous power upon me. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou renewest thy witnesses before me and increasest thy displeasure against me; successions of evil and a time of toil are with me. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And wherefore didst thou bring me forth out of the womb? I had expired, and no eye had seen me. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I should be as though I had not been; I should have been carried from the womb to the grave. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Are not my days few? cease then and let me alone, that I may revive a little, <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Before I go, and never to return, --to the land of darkness and the shadow of death; <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A land of gloom, as darkness itself; of the shadow of death, without any order, where the light is as thick darkness.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>