<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answered Jehovah and said, <a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I know that thou canst do everything, and that thou canst be hindered in no thought of thine. <a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who is he that obscureth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I uttered what I did not understand; things too wonderful for me, which I knew not. <a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will demand of thee, and inform me. <a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I had heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eye seeth thee: <a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it came to pass after Jehovah had spoken these words to Job, that Jehovah said to Eliphaz the Temanite, Mine anger is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends; for ye have not spoken rightly of me, like my servant Job. <a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And now, take for yourselves seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt-offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you, for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after yourfolly, for ye have not spoken of me rightly, like my servant Job. <a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite, went and did according as Jehovah had said unto them; and Jehovah accepted Job.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jehovah turned the captivity of Job, when he had prayed for his friends; and Jehovah gave Job twice as much as he had before. <a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, came to him, and they ate bread with him in his house, and they condoled with him, and comforted him concerning all the evil that Jehovah had brought upon him; and every one gave him a piece of money, and every one a golden ring. <a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jehovah blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning; and he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she-asses. <a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he had seven sons and three daughters. <a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he called the name of the first, Jemimah; and the name of the second, Keziah; and the name of the third, Keren-happuch. <a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of Job; and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren. <a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Job lived after this a hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, four generations. <a id="c42_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Job died, old and full of days.</p>

</body>
</html>