<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Knowest thou the time when the wild goats of the rock bring forth? dost thou mark the calving of the hinds? <a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Dost thou number the months that they fulfil? and knowest thou the time when they bring forth? <a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They bow themselves, they give birth to their young ones, they cast out their pains; <a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their young ones become strong, they grow up in the open field, they go forth, and return not unto them. <a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who hath sent out the wild ass free? and who hath loosed the bands of the onager, <a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whose house I made the wilderness, and the salt plain his dwellings? <a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He laugheth at the tumult of the city, and heareth not the shouts of the driver; <a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The range of the mountains is his pasture, and he searcheth after every green thing. <a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will the buffalo be willing to serve thee, or will he lodge by thy crib? <a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Canst thou bind the buffalo with his cord in the furrow? or will he harrow the valleys after thee? <a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wilt thou put confidence in him, because his strength is great? and wilt thou leave thy labour to him? <a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wilt thou trust him to bring home thy seed, and gather it into thy threshing-floor?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The wing of the ostrich beats joyously--But is it the stork's pinion and plumage? <a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For she leaveth her eggs to the earth, and warmeth them in the dust, <a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And forgetteth that the foot may crush them, or that the beast of the field may trample them. <a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not hers; her labour is in vain, without her concern. <a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> hath deprived her of wisdom, and hath not furnished her with understanding. <a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What time she lasheth herself on high, she scorneth the horse and his rider.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hast thou given strength to the horse? hast thou clothed his neck with the quivering mane? <a id="c39_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Dost thou make him to leap as a locust? His majestic snorting is terrible. <a id="c39_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength; he goeth forth to meet the armed host. <a id="c39_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He laugheth at fear, and is not affrighted; neither turneth he back from before the sword. <a id="c39_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The quiver rattleth upon him, the glittering spear and the javelin. <a id="c39_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage, and cannot contain himself at the sound of the trumpet: <a id="c39_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> At the noise of the trumpets he saith, Aha! and he smelleth the battle afar off, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Doth the hawk fly by thine intelligence, and stretch his wings toward the south? <a id="c39_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, and make his nest on high? <a id="c39_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He inhabiteth the rock and maketh his dwelling on the point of the cliff, and the fastness: <a id="c39_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> From thence he spieth out the prey, his eyes look into the distance; <a id="c39_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And his young ones suck up blood; and where the slain are, there is he.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>