<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hath not man a life of labour upon earth? and are not his days like the days of a hireling? <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As a bondman earnestly desireth the shadow, and a hireling expecteth his wages, <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So am I made to possess months of vanity, and wearisome nights are appointed to me. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If I lie down, I say, When shall I rise up, and the darkness be gone? and I am full of tossings until the dawn. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is broken, and suppurates. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember thou that my life is wind; mine eye shall no more see good. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The eye of him that hath seen me shall behold me no more: thine eyes are upon me, and I am not. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The cloud consumeth and vanisheth away; so he that goeth down to Sheol shall not come up. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place know him again. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore I will not restrain my mouth: I will speak in the anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the bitterness of my soul. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Am I a sea, or a sea-monster, that thou settest a watch over me? <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease my complaint; <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me through visions; <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So that my soul chooseth strangling, death, rather than my bones. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I loathe it; I shall not live always: let me alone, for my days are a breath.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> What is man, that thou makest much of him? and that thou settest thy heart upon him? <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And that thou visitest him every morning, triest him every moment? <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How long wilt thou not look away from me, nor let me alone till I swallow down my spittle? <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Have I sinned, what do I unto thee, thou Observer of men? Why hast thou set me as an object of assault for thee, so that I am become a burden to myself? <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And why dost not thou forgive my transgression and take away mine iniquity? for now shall I lie down in the dust, and thou shalt seek me early, and I shall not be.</p>

</body>
</html>