<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this, Job opened his mouth and cursed his day. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Job answered and said, <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the day perish in which I was born, and the night that said, There is a man child conceived. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> That day--let it be darkness, let not +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> care for it from above, neither let light shine upon it: <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let darkness and the shadow of death claim it; let clouds dwell upon it; let darkeners of the day terrify it. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That night--let gloom seize upon it; let it not rejoice among the days of the year; let it not come into the number of the months. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, let that night be barren; let no joyful sound come therein; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let them curse it that curse the day, who are ready to rouse Leviathan; <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let the stars of its twilight be dark; let it wait for light, and have none, neither let it see the eyelids of the dawn: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because it shut not up the doors of the womb that bore me, and hid not trouble from mine eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wherefore did I not die from the womb, --come forth from the belly and expire? <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why did the knees meet me? and wherefore the breasts, that I should suck? <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For now should I have lain down and been quiet; I should have slept: then had I been at rest, <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> With kings and counsellors of the earth, who build desolate places for themselves, <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with silver; <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Or as a hidden untimely birth I had not been; as infants that have not seen the light. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There the wicked cease from troubling; and there the wearied are at rest. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The prisoners together are at ease; they hear not the voice of the taskmaster. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The small and great are there, and the bondman freed from his master.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wherefore is light given to him that is in trouble, and life to those bitter of soul, <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Who long for death, and it cometh not, and dig for it more than for hidden treasures; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Who rejoice even exultingly and are glad when they find the grave? -- <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> To the man whose way is hidden, and whom +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> hath hedged in? <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For my sighing cometh before my bread, and my groanings are poured out like the waters. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I feared a fear, and it hath come upon me, and that which I dreaded hath come to me. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I was not in safety, neither had I quietness, neither was I at rest, and trouble came.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>