<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answered and said, <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Even to-day is my complaint bitter: my stroke is heavier than my groaning. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Oh that I knew where I might find him, that I might come to his seat! <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I would order the cause before him, and fill my mouth with arguments; <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I would know the words he would answer me, and understand what he would say unto me. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Would he plead against me with his great power? Nay; but he would give heed unto me. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There would an upright man reason with him; and I should be delivered for ever from my judge.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lo, I go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I do not perceive him; <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> On the left hand, where he doth work, but I behold him not; he hideth himself on the right hand, and I see him not. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But he knoweth the way that I take; he trieth me, I shall come forth as gold. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My foot hath held to his steps; his way have I kept, and not turned aside. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips; I have laid up the words of his mouth more than the purpose of my own heart.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? And what his soul desireth, that will he do. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For he will perform what is appointed for me; and many such things are with him. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore am I troubled at his presence; I consider, and I am afraid of him. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> hath made my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me; <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither hath he hidden the gloom from me.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>