<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to set with the dogs of my flock. <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Yea, whereto should the strength of their hands profit me, men in whom vigour hath perished? <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Withered up through want and hunger, they flee into waste places long since desolate and desert: <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They gather the salt-wort among the bushes, and the roots of the broom for their food. <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are driven forth from among men--they cry after them as after a thief-- <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> To dwell in gloomy gorges, in caves of the earth and the rocks: <a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They bray among the bushes; under the brambles they are gathered together: <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Sons of fools, and sons of nameless sires, they are driven out of the land. <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now I am their song, yea, I am their byword. <a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They abhor me, they stand aloof from me, yea, they spare not to spit in my face. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he hath loosed my cord and afflicted me; so they cast off the bridle before me. <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> At my right hand rise the young brood; they push away my feet, and raise up against me their pernicious ways; <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, without any to help them; <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They come in as through a wide breach: amid the confusion they roll themselves onward.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Terrors are turned against me; they pursue mine honour as the wind; and my welfare is passed away like a cloud. <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And now my soul is poured out in me; days of affliction have taken hold upon me. <a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The night pierceth through my bones and detacheth them from me, and my gnawing pains take no rest: <a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By their great force they have become my raiment; they bind me about as the collar of my coat. <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He hath cast me into the mire, and I have become like dust and ashes. <a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I cry unto thee, and thou answerest me not; I stand up, and thou lookest at me. <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou art changed to a cruel one to me; with the strength of thy hand thou pursuest me. <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to be borne away, and dissolvest my substance. <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and into the house of assemblage for all living. <a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Indeed, no prayer availeth when he stretcheth out his hand: though they cry when he destroyeth. <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Did not I weep for him whose days were hard? was not my soul grieved for the needy? <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For I expected good, and there came evil; and I waited for light, but there came darkness. <a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My bowels well up, and rest not; days of affliction have confronted me. <a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I go about blackened, but not by the sun; I stand up, I cry in the congregation. <a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I am become a brother to jackals, and a companion of ostriches. <a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> My skin is become black and falleth off me, and my bones are parched with heat. <a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> My harp also is turned to mourning, and my pipe into the voice of weepers.</p>

</body>
</html>