<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Zophar the Naamathite answered and said, <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore do my thoughts give me an answer, and for this is my haste within me. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I hear a reproof putting me to shame; and my spirit answereth me by mine understanding. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Knowest thou not this, that of old, since man was placed upon earth, <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The exultation of the wicked is short, and the joy of the ungodly man but for a moment? <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Though his height mount up to the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds, <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Like his own dung doth he perish for ever; they which have seen him shall say, Where is he? <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He flieth away as a dream, and is not found; and is chased away as a vision of the night. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The eye which saw him shall see him not again; and his place beholdeth him no more.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His children shall seek the favour of the poor, and his hands restore his wealth. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His bones were full of his youthful strength; but it shall lie down with him in the dust. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth and he hide it under his tongue, <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Though he spare it, and forsake it not, but keep it within his mouth, <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His food is turned in his bowels; it is the gall of asps within him. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He hath swallowed down riches, but he shall vomit them up again: ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> shall cast them out of his belly. <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He shall suck the poison of asps; the viper's tongue shall kill him. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He shall not see streams, rivers, brooks of honey and butter. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> That which he laboured for shall he restore, and not swallow down; its restitution shall be according to the value, and he shall not rejoice therein. <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For he hath oppressed, hath forsaken the poor; he hath violently taken away a house that he did not build. <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Because he knew no rest in his craving, he shall save nought of what he most desired. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Nothing escaped his greediness; therefore his prosperity shall not endure. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits; every hand of the wretched shall come upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> It shall be that, to fill his belly, he will cast his fierce anger upon him, and will rain it upon him into his flesh. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If he have fled from the iron weapon, the bow of brass shall strike him through. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He draweth it forth; it cometh out of his body, and the glittering point out of his gall: terrors are upon him. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> All darkness is laid up for his treasures: a fire not blown shall devour him; it shall feed upon what is left in his tent. <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The heavens shall reveal his iniquity, and the earth shall rise up against him. <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The increase of his house shall depart, flowing away in the day of his anger. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> This is the portion of the wicked man from God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and the heritage appointed to him by ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> .</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>