<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Elihu proceeded and said, <a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee that I have yet words for +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Creator. <a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For truly my words shall be no falsehood: one perfect in knowledge is with thee.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lo, ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> is mighty, but despiseth not any; mighty in strength of understanding: <a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He saveth not the wicked alive; but he doeth justice to the afflicted. <a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous, but with kings on the throne doth he even set them for ever; and they are exalted. <a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And if, bound in fetters, they be held in cords of affliction, <a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then he sheweth them their work, and their transgressions, because they have increased. <a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he openeth their ear to discipline, and commandeth that they return from iniquity. <a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they hearken and serve him, they shall accomplish their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures. <a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if they hearken not, they shall pass away by the sword, and expire without knowledge. <a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But the godless in heart heap up anger; they cry not when he bindeth them: <a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Their soul dieth in youth, and their life is among the unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But he delivereth the afflicted in his affliction, and openeth their ear in their oppression. <a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Even so would he have allured thee out of the jaws of distress into a broad place, where there is no straitness; and the supply of thy table would be full of fatness. <a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But thou art full of the judgments of the wicked: judgment and justice take hold on thee. <a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Because there is wrath, beware lest it take thee away through chastisement: then a great ransom could not avail thee. <a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Will he esteem thy riches? Not gold, nor all the resources of strength! <a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Desire not the night, when peoples are cut off from their place. <a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Take heed, turn not to iniquity; for this hast thou chosen rather than affliction. <a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Lo, ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> is exalted in his power: who teacheth as he? <a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who hath appointed him his way? or who hath said, Thou hast wrought unrighteousness?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Remember that thou magnify his work, which men celebrate. <a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All men look at it; man beholdeth it afar off. <a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Lo, ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> is great, and we comprehend him not, neither can the number of his years be searched out. <a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For he draweth up the drops of water: they distil in rain from the vapour which he formeth, <a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Which the skies pour down and drop upon man abundantly. <a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, or the crashing of his pavilion? <a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Lo, he spreadeth his light around him, and covereth the bottom of the sea. <a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For with them he judgeth the peoples; he giveth food in abundance. <a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> His hands he covereth with lightning, and commandeth it where it is to strike. <a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> His thundering declareth concerning him; the cattle even, concerning its coming.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>