<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Aye, my heart trembleth at this also, and leapeth up out of its place: <a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear attentively the roar of his voice, and the murmur going forth from his mouth. <a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He sendeth it forth under the whole heaven, and his lightning unto the ends of the earth. <a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> After it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of his excellency, and holdeth not back the flashes when his voice is heard. <a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> thundereth marvellously with his voice, doing great things which we do not comprehend.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For he saith to the snow, Fall on the earth! and to the pouring rain, even the pouring rains of his might. <a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He sealeth up the hand of every man; that all men may know his work. <a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the wild beast goeth into its lair, and they remain in their dens. <a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the chamber of the south cometh the whirlwind; and cold from the winds of the north. <a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> By the breath of ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> ice is given; and the breadth of the waters is straitened. <a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Also with plentiful moisture he loadeth the thick clouds, his light dispels the cloud; <a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they are turned every way by his guidance, that they may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the circuit of the earth, <a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whether he cause it to come as a rod, or for his land, or in mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Hearken unto this, Job; stand still and discern the wondrous works of ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Dost thou know how +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> hath disposed them, and how he causeth the lightning of his cloud to flash? <a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Dost thou know about the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him that is perfect in knowledge? <a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How thy garments become warm when he quieteth the earth by the south wind? <a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Hast thou with him spread out the sky, firm, like a molten mirror? <a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Teach us what we shall say unto him! We cannot order our words by reason of darkness. <a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Shall it be told him if I would speak? if a man so say, surely he shall be swallowed up.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And now men see not the light as it gleameth, it is hidden in the skies. But the wind passeth by and cleareth them. <a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> From the north cometh gold; with +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> is terrible majesty. <a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The Almighty, we cannot find him out: excellent in power, and in judgment, and in abundance of justice, he doth not afflict. <a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Men do therefore fear him: he respecteth not any that are wise of heart.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>