<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If a word were essayed to thee, wouldest thou be grieved? But who can refrain from speaking? <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, thou hast instructed many, and thou hast strengthened the weak hands; <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy words have upholden him that was stumbling, and thou hast braced up the bending knees: <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now it is come upon thee, and thou grievest; it toucheth thee, and thou art troubled. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hath not thy piety been thy confidence, and the perfection of thy ways thy hope?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember, I pray thee, who that was innocent has perished? and where were the upright cut off? <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Even as I have seen, they that plough iniquity and sow mischief, reap the same. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By the breath of +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> they perish, and by the blast of his nostrils are they consumed. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The roar of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, and the teeth of the young lions, are broken; <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, and the whelps of the lioness are scattered.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now to me a word was secretly brought, and mine ear received a whisper thereof. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In thoughts from visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth on men: -- <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Fear came on me, and trembling, and made all my bones to shake; <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And a spirit passed before my face--the hair of my flesh stood up-- <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It stood still; I could not discern the appearance thereof: a form was before mine eyes; I heard a slight murmur and a voice: <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shall mortal man be more just than +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> Shall a man be purer than his Maker? <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lo, he trusteth not his servants, and his angels he chargeth with folly: <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How much more them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, who are crushed as the moth! <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> From morning to evening are they smitten: without any heeding it, they perish for ever. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Is not their tent-cord torn away in them? they die, and without wisdom.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>