<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are mine. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Are there not mockers around me? and doth not mine eye abide in their provocation? <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lay down now a pledge, be thou surety for me with thyself: who is he that striketh hands with me? <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast hidden their heart from understanding; therefore thou wilt not exalt them. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He that betrayeth friends for a prey--even the eyes of his children shall fail. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he hath made me a proverb of the peoples; and I am become one to be spit on in the face. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And mine eye is dim by reason of grief, and all my members are as a shadow. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Upright men shall be astonished at this, and the innocent shall be stirred up against the ungodly; <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But the righteous shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean hands shall increase in strength.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But as for you all, pray come on again; and I shall not find one wise man among you. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days are past, my purposes are broken off, the cherished thoughts of my heart. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They change the night into day; the light they imagine near in presence of the darkness. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I wait, Sheol is my house; I spread my bed in the darkness: <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I cry to the grave, Thou art my father! to the worm, My mother, and my sister! <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And where is then my hope? yea, my hope, who shall see it? <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It shall go down to the bars of Sheol, when our rest shall be together in the dust.</p>

</body>
</html>