<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind, <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Reasoning with unprofitable talk, and with speeches which do no good? <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yea, thou makest piety of none effect, and restrainest meditation before 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou hast chosen the tongue of the crafty. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I; and thy lips testify against thee. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Art thou the first man that was born? and wast thou brought forth before the hills? <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hast thou listened in the secret council of +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> And hast thou absorbed wisdom for thyself? <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What knowest thou that we know not? what understandest thou which is not in us? <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Both the greyheaded and the aged are with us, older than thy father. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Are the consolations of 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> too small for thee? and the word gently spoken to thee? <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why doth thy heart carry thee away? and why do thine eyes wink? <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That thou turnest thy spirit against 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> and lettest words go out of thy mouth? <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What is man, that he should be pure? and he that is born of a woman, that he should be righteous? <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, he putteth no trust in his holy ones, and the heavens are not pure in his sight: <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> How much less the abominable and corrupt, --man, that drinketh unrighteousness like water!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will shew thee, listen to me; and what I have seen I will declare; <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Which wise men have told from their fathers, and have not hidden; <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Unto whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger passed among them. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> All his days the wicked man is tormented, and numbered years are allotted to the violent. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The sound of terrors is in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer cometh upon him. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and he is singled out for the sword. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He wandereth abroad for bread, --where may it be? He knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Distress and anguish make him afraid; they prevail against him, as a king ready for the battle. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he hath stretched out his hand against 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> and strengthened himself against the Almighty: <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He runneth against him, with outstretched neck, with the thick bosses of his bucklers; <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For he hath covered his face with his fatness, and gathered fat upon his flanks. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he dwelleth in desolate cities, in houses that no man inhabiteth, which are destined to become heaps. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He shall not become rich, neither shall his substance continue, and their possessions shall not extend upon the earth. <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his branches; and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let him not trust in vanity: he is deceived, for vanity shall be his recompense; <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It shall be complete before his day, and his branch shall not be green. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He shall shake off his unripe grapes as a vine, and shall cast his flower as an olive. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For the family of the ungodly shall be barren, and fire shall consume the tents of bribery. <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> They conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity, and their belly prepareth deceit.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>