<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why are not times treasured up with the Almighty? why do not they that know him see his days? <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They remove the landmarks; they violently take away the flocks and pasture them; <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow's ox for a pledge; <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They turn the needy out of the way: the afflicted of the land all hide themselves. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Lo, as wild asses in the desert, they go forth to their work, seeking early for the prey: the wilderness yieldeth them food for their children. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They reap in the field the fodder thereof, and they gather the vintage of the wicked; <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They pass the night naked without clothing, and have no covering in the cold; <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and for want of a shelter embrace the rock... <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of the poor: <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> These go naked without clothing, and, hungry, they bear the sheaf; <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They press out oil within their walls, they tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded crieth out; and +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> imputeth not the impiety.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> There are those that rebel against the light; they know not the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The murderer riseth with the light, killeth the afflicted and needy, and in the night is as a thief. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the eye of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me; and he putteth a covering on his face. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In the dark they dig through houses; by day they shut themselves in; they know not the light: <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the morning is to them all as the shadow of death; for they are familiar with the terrors of the shadow of death.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He is swift on the face of the waters; their portion is cursed on the earth: he turneth not unto the way of the vineyards. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Drought and heat consume snow waters; so doth Sheol those that have sinned. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The womb forgetteth him; the worm feedeth sweetly on him: he shall be no more remembered; and unrighteousness is broken as a tree, -- <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He that despoileth the barren that beareth not, and doeth not good to the widow: <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He draweth also the mighty with his power; he riseth up, and no man is sure of life. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> God setteth him in safety, and he resteth thereon; but his eyes are upon their ways. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They are exalted for a little, and are no more; they are laid low; like all other are they gathered, and are cut off as the tops of the ears of corn. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If it be not so now, who will make me a liar, and make my speech nothing worth?</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>