<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answered and said, <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear attentively my speech, and let this replace your consolations. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Suffer me and I will speak; and after I have spoken, mock on! <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As for me, is my complaint to a man? or wherefore should not my spirit be impatient? <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Mark me, and be astonished, and lay the hand upon the mouth. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Even when I think thereon, I am affrighted, and trembling taketh hold of my flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore do the wicked live, grow old, yea, become mighty in power? <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their seed is established with them in their sight, and their offspring before their eyes. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> upon them. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and casteth not her calf. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They shout to the tambour and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the pipe. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They spend their days in prosperity, and in a moment go down to Sheol. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they say unto ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> Depart from us, for we desire not the knowledge of thy ways! <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What is the Almighty that we should serve him? and what are we profited if we pray unto him? <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, their prosperity is not in their hand. The counsel of the wicked be far from me!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> How often is the lamp of the wicked put out, and cometh their calamity upon them? Doth he distribute sorrows to them in his anger? <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Do they become as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm carrieth away? <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> layeth up the punishment of his iniquity for his children; he rewardeth him, and he shall know it: <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drink of the fury of the Almighty. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For what pleasure should he have in his house after him, when the number of his months is cut off? <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Can any teach ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> knowledge? And he it is that judgeth those that are high. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> One dieth in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet; <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His sides are full of fat, and the marrow of his bones is moistened; <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And another dieth in bitterness of soul, and hath not tasted good: <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Together they lie down in the dust, and the worms cover them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Lo, I know your thoughts, and the devices ye wrongfully imagine against me. <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For ye say, Where is the house of the noble? and where the tent of the dwellings of the wicked? <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Have ye not asked the wayfarers? and do ye not regard their tokens: <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> That the wicked is reserved for the day of calamity? They are led forth to the day of wrath. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall repay him what he hath done? <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Yet is he carried to the graves, and watch is kept over the tomb. <a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The clods of the valley are sweet unto him; and every man followeth suit after him, as there were innumerable before him. <a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> How then comfort ye me in vain? Your answers remain perfidious.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>