<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath heard and understood it. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> What ye know, I know also: I am not inferior to you. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But I will speak to the Almighty, and will find pleasure in reasoning with ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For ye indeed are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of no value. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Oh that ye would be altogether silent! and it would be your wisdom. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear now my defence, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will ye speak unrighteously for ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and for him speak deceit? <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will it be well if he should search you out? or as one mocketh at a man, will ye mock at him? <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He will certainly reprove you, if ye do secretly accept persons. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall not his excellency terrify you? and his dread fall upon you? <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Your memorable sayings are proverbs of ashes, your bulwarks are bulwarks of mire.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hold your peace from me, and I will speak, and let come on me what will! <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore should I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in my hand? <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, if he slay me, yet would I trust in him; but I will defend mine own ways before him. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> This also shall be my salvation, that a profane man shall not come before his face. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Hear attentively my speech and my declaration with your ears. <a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold now, I have ordered the cause; I know that I shall be justified. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Who is he that contendeth with me? For if I were silent now, I should expire. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Only do not two things unto me; then will I not hide myself from thee. <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Withdraw thy hand far from me; and let not thy terror make me afraid: <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then call, and I will answer; or I will speak, and answer thou me.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> How many are mine iniquities and sins? Make me to know my transgression and my sin. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wherefore dost thou hide thy face, and countest me for thine enemy? <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Wilt thou terrify a driven leaf? and wilt thou pursue dry stubble? <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth; <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And thou puttest my feet in the stocks, and markest all my paths; thou settest a bound about the soles of my feet; -- <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> One who, as a rotten thing consumeth, as a garment that the moth eateth.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>