<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I made a covenant with mine eyes; and how should I fix my regard upon a maid? <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For what would have been my portion of +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> from above, and what the heritage of the Almighty from on high? <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is not calamity for the unrighteous? and misfortune for the workers of iniquity? <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Doth not he see my ways, and number all my steps? <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If I have walked with falsehood, and my foot hath hasted to deceit, <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> (Let me be weighed in an even balance, and +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> will take knowledge of my blamelessness;) <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If my step have turned out of the way, and my heart followed mine eyes, and if any blot cleaveth to my hands; <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let me sow, and another eat; and let mine offspring be rooted out.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If my heart have been enticed unto a woman, so that I laid wait at my neighbour's door, <a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let my wife grind for another, and let others bow down upon her. <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For this is an infamy; yea, it is an iniquity to be judged by the judges: <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction, and would root out all mine increase. <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I have despised the cause of my bondman or of my bondmaid, when they contended with me, <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What then should I do when ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> riseth up? and if he visited, what should I answer him? <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not One fashion us in the womb?</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If I have withheld the poor from their desire, or caused the eyes of the widow to fail; <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Or have eaten my morsel alone, so that the fatherless ate not thereof, <a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (For from my youth he grew up with me as with a father, and I have guided the widow from my mother's womb;) <a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If I have seen any perishing for want of clothing, or any needy without covering; <a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my lambs; <a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If I have lifted up my hand against an orphan, because I saw my help in the gate: <a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then let my shoulder fall from the shoulder-blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone! <a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For calamity from ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> was a terror to me, and by reason of his excellency I was powerless.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If I have made gold my hope, or said to the fine gold, My confidence! <a id="c31_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If I rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because my hand had gotten much; <a id="c31_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If I beheld the sun when it shone, or the moon walking in brightness, <a id="c31_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And my heart have been secretly enticed, so that my mouth kissed my hand: <a id="c31_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> This also would be an iniquity for the judge, for I should have denied the ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> who is above. <a id="c31_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> If I rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, and exulted when evil befell him; <a id="c31_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> (Neither have I suffered my mouth to sin by asking his life with a curse;) <a id="c31_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If the men of my tent said not, Who shall find one that hath not been satisfied with his meat? -- <a id="c31_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The stranger did not lodge without; I opened my doors to the pathway.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding mine iniquity in my bosom, <a id="c31_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Because I feared the great multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I kept silence, and went not out of the door, ... <a id="c31_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Oh that I had one to hear me! Behold my signature: let the Almighty answer me! And let mine opponent write an accusation! <a id="c31_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Would I not take it upon my shoulder? I would bind it on to me as a crown; <a id="c31_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince would I come near to him. <a id="c31_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> If my land cry out against me, and its furrows weep together; <a id="c31_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, and have tormented to death the souls of its owners: <a id="c31_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Let thistles grow instead of wheat, and tares instead of barley. The words of Job are ended.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>