<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold which they refine; <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Iron is taken out of the dust, and copper is molten out of the stone. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Man putteth an end to the darkness, and exploreth to the utmost limit, the stones of darkness and of the shadow of death. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He openeth a shaft far from the inhabitants of the earth: forgotten of the foot, they hang suspended; away below men they hover. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As for the earth, out of it cometh bread, and underneath it is turned up as by fire; <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The stones of it are the place of sapphires, and it hath dust of gold. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> It is a path no bird of prey knoweth, and the vulture's eye hath not seen it; <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The proud beasts have not trodden it, nor the fierce lion passed over it. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Man putteth forth his hand upon the flinty rock, he overturneth the mountains by the root. <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He cutteth out channels in the rocks, and his eye seeth every precious thing. <a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He bindeth the streams that they drip not, and what is hidden he bringeth forth to light. <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But wisdom, where shall it be found? and where is the place of understanding? <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Man knoweth not the value thereof; and it is not found in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The deep saith, It is not in me; and the sea saith, It is not with me. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Choice gold cannot be given for it, nor silver be weighed for its price. <a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It is not set in the balance with gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, and the sapphire. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Gold and glass cannot be compared to it, nor vessels of fine gold be its exchange. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Corals and crystal are no more remembered; yea, the acquisition of wisdom is above rubies. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The topaz of Ethiopia shall not be compared to it, neither shall it be set in the balance with pure gold.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of understanding? <a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For it is hidden from the eyes of all living, and concealed from the fowl of the heavens. <a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Destruction and death say, We have heard its report with our ears. <a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth its place: <a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he looketh to the ends of the earth, he seeth under the whole heaven. <a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In making a weight for the wind, and meting out the waters by measure, <a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In appointing a statute for the rain, and a way for the thunder's flash: <a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then did he see it, and declare it; he established it, yea, and searched it out; <a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And unto man he said, Lo, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.</p>

</body>
</html>