<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Moreover Elihu answered and said, <a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear my words, ye wise men; and give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge. <a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the ear trieth words, as the palate tasteth food. <a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let us choose for ourselves what is right; let us know among ourselves what is good! <a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For Job hath said, I am righteous, and ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> hath taken away my judgment: <a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Should I lie against my right? My wound is incurable without transgression. <a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What man is like Job? he drinketh up scorning like water, <a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And goeth in company with workers of iniquity, and walketh with wicked men. <a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he hath said, It profiteth not a man if he delight himself in God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore hearken unto me, ye men of understanding: Far be wickedness from ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and wrong from the Almighty! <a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For a man's work will he render to him, and cause every one to find according to his way. <a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, surely, ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> acteth not wickedly, and the Almighty perverteth not judgment. <a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who hath entrusted to him the earth? and who hath disposed the whole world? <a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If he only thought of himself, and gathered unto him his spirit and his breath, <a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All flesh would expire together, and man would return to the dust.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If now thou hast understanding, hear this: give ear to the voice of my words! <a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Should he that hateth right indeed govern? and wilt thou condemn the All-just? <a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Shall one say to a king, Belial? to nobles, Wicked? <a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> How then to him that accepteth not the persons of princes, nor regardeth the rich man more than the poor? for they are all the work of his hands. <a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In a moment they die, even at midnight the people are convulsed and pass away; and the strong are taken away without hand. <a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his steps. <a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves. <a id="c34_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For he doth not long consider a man, to bring him before ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> in judgment. <a id="c34_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He breaketh in pieces mighty men without inquiry, and setteth others in their stead; <a id="c34_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Since he knoweth their actions; and he overthroweth them in the night, and they are crushed. <a id="c34_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of others, <a id="c34_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Because they have turned back from him, and would consider none of his ways; <a id="c34_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted. <a id="c34_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When he giveth quietness, who then will disturb? and when he hideth his face, who shall behold him? and this towards a nation, or towards a man alike; <a id="c34_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> That the ungodly man reign not, that the people be not ensnared.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For hath he said unto ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a> I bear chastisement, I will not offend; <a id="c34_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> What I see not, teach thou me; if I have done wrong, I will do so no more? <a id="c34_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Shall he recompense according to thy mind? for thou hast refused his judgment; for thou so choosest, and not I; speak then what thou knowest. <a id="c34_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Men of understanding will say to me, and a wise man who heareth me: <a id="c34_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words were not with intelligence. <a id="c34_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Would that Job may be tried unto the end, because of his answers after the manner of evil men! <a id="c34_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth his hands among us, and multiplieth his words against ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> .</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>