<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job answered and said, <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How hast thou helped the powerless; how saved the arm that is without strength! <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> How hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom, and abundantly declared the thing as it is! <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For whom hast thou uttered words? and whose spirit came from thee?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The shades tremble beneath the waters and the inhabitants thereof; <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sheol is naked before him, and destruction hath no covering. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He stretcheth out the north over empty space, he hangeth the earth upon nothing; <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds, and the cloud is not rent under them. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He covereth the face of his throne, he spreadeth his cloud upon it. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He hath traced a fixed circle over the waters, unto the confines of light and darkness. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The pillars of the heavens tremble and are astonished at his rebuke. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He stirreth up the sea by his power, and by his understanding he smiteth through Rahab. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> By his Spirit the heavens are adorned; his hand hath formed the fleeing serpent. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Lo, these are the borders of his ways; but what a whisper of a word do we hear of him! And the thunder of his power, who can understand?</p>

</body>
</html>