<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Bildad the Shuhite answered and said, <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long wilt thou speak these things? and the words of thy mouth be a strong wind? <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Doth 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> pervert judgment, and the Almighty pervert justice? <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If thy children have sinned against him, he hath also given them over into the hand of their transgression. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If thou seek earnestly unto 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and make thy supplication to the Almighty, <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If thou be pure and upright, surely now he will awake for thee, and make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous; <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And though thy beginning was small, yet thine end shall be very great.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For inquire, I pray thee, of the former generation, and attend to the researches of their fathers; <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For we are but of yesterday, and know nothing, for our days upon earth are a shadow. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Shall not they teach thee, and tell thee, and utter words out of their heart? <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Doth the papyrus shoot up without mire? doth the reed-grass grow without water? <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Whilst it is yet in its greenness and not cut down, it withereth before any other grass. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So are the paths of all that forget 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and the profane man's hope shall perish, <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Whose confidence shall be cut off, and his reliance is a spider's web. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He shall lean upon his house, and it shall not stand; he shall lay hold on it, but it shall not endure. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He is full of sap before the sun, and his sprout shooteth forth over his garden; <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His roots are entwined about the stoneheap; he seeth the place of stones. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If he destroy him from his place, then it shall deny him: I have not seen thee! <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out of the dust shall others grow.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, 路God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> will not cast off a perfect man, neither will he take evil-doers by the hand. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whilst he would fill thy mouth with laughing and thy lips with shouting, <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame, and the tent of the wicked be no more.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>