<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wilt thou draw out the leviathan with the hook, and press down his tongue with a cord? <a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wilt thou put a rush-rope into his nose, and pierce his jaw with a spike? <a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Will he make many supplications unto thee? or will he speak softly unto thee? <a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will he make a covenant with thee? wilt thou take him as a bondman for ever? <a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wilt thou play with him as with a bird, and wilt thou bind him for thy maidens? <a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Shall partners make traffic of him, will they divide him among merchants? <a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wilt thou fill his skin with darts, and his head with fish-spears? <a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Lay thy hand upon him; remember the battle, --do no more! <a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lo, hope as to him is belied: is not one cast down even at the sight of him? <a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> None is so bold as to stir him up; and who is he that will stand before me?</p>

<p><a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who hath first given to me, that I should repay him? Whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine. <a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will not be silent as to his parts, the story of his power, and the beauty of his structure. <a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who can uncover the surface of his garment? who can come within his double jaws? <a id="c41_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who can open the doors of his face? Round about his teeth is terror. <a id="c41_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The rows of his shields are a pride, shut up together as with a close seal. <a id="c41_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> One is so near to another that no air can come between them; <a id="c41_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They are joined each to its fellow; they stick together, and cannot be sundered. <a id="c41_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His sneezings flash light, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning. <a id="c41_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Out of his mouth go forth flames; sparks of fire leap out: <a id="c41_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Out of his nostrils goeth smoke, as out of a boiling pot and cauldron. <a id="c41_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His breath kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth. <a id="c41_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In his neck lodgeth strength, and terror danceth before him. <a id="c41_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The flakes of his flesh are joined together: they are fused upon him, they cannot be moved. <a id="c41_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> His heart is firm as a stone, yea, firm as the nether millstone. <a id="c41_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When he raiseth himself up, the mighty are afraid: they are beside themselves with consternation. <a id="c41_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If any reach him with a sword, it cannot hold; neither spear, nor dart, nor harpoon. <a id="c41_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He esteemeth iron as straw, bronze as rotten wood. <a id="c41_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The arrow will not make him flee; slingstones are turned with him into stubble. <a id="c41_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Clubs are counted as stubble; he laugheth at the shaking of a javelin. <a id="c41_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> His under parts are sharp potsherds: he spreadeth a threshing-sledge upon the mire. <a id="c41_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He maketh the deep to boil like a pot; he maketh the sea like a pot of ointment; <a id="c41_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He maketh the path to shine after him: one would think the deep to be hoary. <a id="c41_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Upon earth there is not his like, who is made without fear. <a id="c41_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He beholdeth all high things; he is king over all the proud beasts.</p>

</body>
</html>