<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Can a man be profitable to ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> surely it is unto himself that the wise man is profitable. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Is it any pleasure to the Almighty if thou art righteous? And is it gain to him that thou makest thy ways perfect? <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will he reason with thee for fear of thee? Will he enter with thee into judgment?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Is not thy wickedness great? and thine iniquities without end? <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thou hast taken a pledge of thy brother for nought, and stripped off the clothing of the naked. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou hast not given water to the fainting to drink, and thou hast withholden bread from the hungry. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But the powerful man, he had the land; and the man of high rank dwelt in it. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Widows hast thou sent empty away, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore snares are round about thee, and sudden fear troubleth thee; <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Or darkness, that thou canst not see, and floods of waters cover thee. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Is not +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> in the height of the heavens? And behold the summit of the stars: how exalted are they! <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou sayest, What doth ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> know? will he judge through the dark cloud? <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thick clouds are a covering to him, that he seeth not; and he walketh on the vault of the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Dost thou mark the ancient path which wicked men have trodden? <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Who were carried off before the time, whose foundation was overflowed with a flood; <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Who said unto ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> Depart from us! and what could the Almighty do to them? <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yet he filled their houses with good. But the counsel of the wicked is far from me. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The righteous see it, and are glad; and the innocent laugh them to scorn: <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Is not he who rose against us destroyed, and doth not the fire consume his residue?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Reconcile thyself now with him, and be at peace: thereby good shall come unto thee. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Receive, I pray thee, instruction from his mouth, and lay up his words in thy heart. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up. If thou remove unrighteousness far from thy tents, <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And put the precious ore with the dust, and the gold of Ophir among the stones of the torrents, <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then the Almighty will be thy precious ore, and silver heaped up unto thee; <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Yea, then shalt thou delight thyself in the Almighty, and shalt lift up thy face unto +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a>  <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he will hear thee, and thou shalt pay thy vows; <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And thou shalt decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee; and light shall shine upon thy ways. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> When they are made low, then thou shalt say, Rise up! and he shall save him that is of downcast eyes. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Even him that is not innocent shall he deliver; yea, he shall be delivered by the pureness of thy hands.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>