<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, <a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? <a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Gird up now thy loins like a man; and I will demand of thee, and inform thou me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Where wast thou when I founded the earth? Declare, if thou hast understanding. <a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who set the measures thereof--if thou knowest? or who stretched a line upon it? <a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whereupon were the foundations thereof sunken? or who laid its corner-stone, <a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> shouted for joy? <a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And who shut up the sea with doors, when it burst forth, issuing out of the womb? <a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> When I made the cloud its garment, and thick darkness a swaddling band for it; <a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When I cut out for it my boundary, and set bars and doors, <a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And said, Hitherto shalt thou come and no further, and here shall thy proud waves be stayed?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hast thou since thy days commanded the morning? hast thou caused the dawn to know its place, <a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, and the wicked might be shaken out of it? <a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> It is changed like the signet-clay; and all things stand forth as in a garment: <a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And from the wicked their light is withholden, and the uplifted arm is broken. <a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hast thou entered as far as the springs of the sea? and hast thou walked in the recesses of the deep? <a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Have the gates of death been revealed unto thee? and hast thou seen the gates of the shadow of death? <a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Hath thine understanding compassed the breadths of the earth? Declare if thou knowest it all. <a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Where is the way to where light dwelleth? and the darkness, where is its place, <a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> That thou shouldest take it to its bound, and that thou shouldest know the paths to its house? <a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou knowest, for thou wast then born, and the number of thy days is great! <a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hast thou entered into the storehouses of the snow, and hast thou seen the treasuries of the hail, <a id="c38_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Which I have reserved for the time of distress, for the day of battle and war? <a id="c38_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> By what way is the light parted, and the east wind scattered upon the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who hath divided a channel for the rain-flood, and a way for the thunder's flash; <a id="c38_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> To cause it to rain on the earth, where no one is; on the wilderness wherein there is not a man; <a id="c38_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> To satisfy the desolate and waste ground, and to cause the sprout of the grass to spring forth? <a id="c38_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Hath the rain a father? or who begetteth the drops of dew? <a id="c38_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Out of whose womb cometh the ice? and the hoary frost of heaven, who bringeth it forth? <a id="c38_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> When the waters lie hidden as in stone, and the face of the deep holdeth fast together. <a id="c38_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Canst thou fasten the bands of the Pleiades, or loosen the cords of Orion? <a id="c38_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Dost thou bring forth the constellations each in its season? or dost thou guide the Bear with her sons? <a id="c38_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Knowest thou the ordinances of the heavens? dost thou determine their rule over the earth? <a id="c38_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Dost thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that floods of waters may cover thee? <a id="c38_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Dost thou send forth lightnings that they may go, and say unto thee, Here we are? <a id="c38_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understanding to the mind? <a id="c38_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Who numbereth the clouds with wisdom? or who poureth out the bottles of the heavens, <a id="c38_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> When the dust runneth as into a molten mass, and the clods cleave fast together? <a id="c38_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Dost thou hunt the prey for the lioness, and dost thou satisfy the appetite of the young lions, <a id="c38_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> When they crouch in their dens, and abide in the thicket to lie in wait? <a id="c38_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Who provideth for the raven his food, when his young ones cry unto ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and they wander for lack of meat?</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>