<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. <a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then was kindled the anger of Elihu the son of Barachel, the Buzite, of the family of Ram: against Job was his anger kindled, because he justified himself rather than God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and against his three friends was his anger kindled, because they found no answer, and yet condemned Job. <a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But Elihu had waited till Job had finished speaking, because they were older than he. <a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of the three men, and his anger was kindled.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am young, and ye are aged; wherefore I was timid, and feared to shew you what I know. <a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I said, Let days speak, and multitude of years teach wisdom. <a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But there is a spirit which is in man; and the breath of the Almighty giveth them understanding. <a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is not the great that are wise; neither do the aged understand judgment. <a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore I say, Hearken to me; I also will shew what I know. <a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Lo, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasonings, until ye searched out what to say. <a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yea, I gave you mine attention, and behold, there was none of you that confuted Job, that answered his words; <a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> That ye may not say, We have found out wisdom; ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> will make him yield, not man. <a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now he hath not directed his words against me; and I will not answer him with your speeches. ...</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They were amazed, they answered no more; words failed them. <a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I waited, for they spoke not, but stood still, and answered no more; -- <a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will answer, I also in my turn, I also will shew what I know: <a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me. <a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent; like new flasks, it is ready to burst. <a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I will speak, that I may find relief; I will open my lips and answer. <a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let me not, I pray you, accept any man's person; neither will I give flattery to man. <a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I know not how to flatter; my Maker would soon take me away.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>