<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 145</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 145</h2>

<p><a id="c145_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will extol thee, my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> O King, and I will bless thy name for ever and ever. <a id="c145_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every day will I bless thee, and I will praise thy name for ever and ever. <a id="c145_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Great is Jehovah, and exceedingly to be praised; and his greatness is unsearchable. <a id="c145_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One generation shall laud thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts. <a id="c145_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I will speak of the glorious splendour of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works. <a id="c145_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they shall tell of the might of thy terrible acts; and thy great deeds will I declare. <a id="c145_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing aloud of thy righteousness. <a id="c145_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah is gracious and merciful; slow to anger, and of great loving-kindness. <a id="c145_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jehovah is good to all; and his tender mercies are over all his works.</p>

<p><a id="c145_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All thy works shall praise thee, Jehovah, and thy saints shall bless thee. <a id="c145_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They shall tell of the glory of thy kingdom, and speak of thy power; <a id="c145_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To make known to the children of men his mighty acts, and the glorious splendour of his kingdom. <a id="c145_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy kingdom is a kingdom of all ages, and thy dominion is throughout all generations. <a id="c145_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all that are bowed down. <a id="c145_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their food in its season. <a id="c145_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou openest thy hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing. <a id="c145_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jehovah is righteous in all his ways, and kind in all his works. <a id="c145_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jehovah is nigh unto all that call upon him, unto all that call upon him in truth. <a id="c145_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He fulfilleth the desire of them that fear him; he heareth their cry, and saveth them. <a id="c145_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Jehovah keepeth all that love him, and all the wicked will he destroy. <a id="c145_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My mouth shall speak the praise of Jehovah; and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>