<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 141</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 141</h2>

<p><a id="c141_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, I have called upon thee: make haste unto me; give ear unto my voice, when I call unto thee. <a id="c141_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense, the lifting up of my hands as the evening oblation. <a id="c141_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Set a watch, O Jehovah, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips. <a id="c141_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practise deeds of wickedness with men that are workers of iniquity; and let me not eat of their dainties.</p>

<p><a id="c141_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let the righteous smite me, it is kindness; and let him reprove me, it is an excellent oil which my head shall not refuse: for yet my prayer also is for them in their calamities. <a id="c141_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When their judges are thrown down from the rocks, they shall hear my words, for they are sweet. <a id="c141_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our bones are scattered at the mouth of Sheol, as when one cutteth and cleaveth wood upon the earth. <a id="c141_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For unto thee, Jehovah, Lord, are mine eyes; in thee do I trust: leave not my soul destitute. <a id="c141_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Keep me from the snare which they have laid for me, and from the traps of the workers of iniquity. <a id="c141_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I withal pass over.</p>

</body>
</html>