<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 96</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 96</h2>

<p><a id="c96_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Sing ye unto Jehovah a new song: sing unto Jehovah, all the earth. <a id="c96_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing unto Jehovah, bless his name; publish his salvation from day to day. <a id="c96_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Declare his glory among the nations, his wondrous works among all the peoples. <a id="c96_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Jehovah is great and exceedingly to be praised; he is terrible above all gods. <a id="c96_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For all the gods of the peoples are idols; but Jehovah made the heavens. <a id="c96_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Majesty and splendour are before him; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. <a id="c96_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Give unto Jehovah, ye families of peoples, give unto Jehovah glory and strength; <a id="c96_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Give unto Jehovah the glory of his name; bring an oblation and come into his courts; <a id="c96_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Worship Jehovah in holy splendour; tremble before him, all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c96_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say among the nations, Jehovah reigneth! yea, the world is established, it shall not be moved; he will execute judgment upon the peoples with equity. <a id="c96_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; <a id="c96_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let the field exult and all that is therein. Then shall all the trees of the forest sing for joy, <a id="c96_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Before Jehovah, for he cometh; for he cometh to judge the earth: he will judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples in his faithfulness.</p>

</body>
</html>