<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 116</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 116</h2>

<p><a id="c116_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I love Jehovah, for he hath heard my voice and my supplications; <a id="c116_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he hath inclined his ear unto me, and I will call upon him during all my days. <a id="c116_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The bands of death encompassed me, and the anguish of Sheol took hold of me; I found trouble and sorrow: <a id="c116_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then called I upon the name of Jehovah: I beseech thee, Jehovah, deliver my soul. <a id="c116_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Gracious is Jehovah and righteous; and our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is merciful. <a id="c116_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah keepeth the simple: I was brought low, and he saved me. <a id="c116_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for Jehovah hath dealt bountifully with thee. <a id="c116_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, my feet from falling. <a id="c116_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will walk before Jehovah in the land of the living.</p>

<p><a id="c116_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I believed, therefore have I spoken. As for me, I was greatly afflicted. <a id="c116_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I said in my haste, All men are liars. <a id="c116_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> What shall I render unto Jehovah, for all his benefits toward me? <a id="c116_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of Jehovah. <a id="c116_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will perform my vows unto Jehovah, yea, before all his people. <a id="c116_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Precious in the sight of Jehovah is the death of his saints. <a id="c116_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yea, Jehovah! for I am thy servant; I am thy servant, the son of thy handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds. <a id="c116_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of Jehovah. <a id="c116_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will perform my vows unto Jehovah, yea, before all his people, <a id="c116_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the courts of Jehovah's house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Hallelujah!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>