<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 89</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 89</h2>

<p><a id="c89_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will sing of the loving-kindness of Jehovah for ever; with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness from generation to generation. <a id="c89_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I said, Loving-kindness shall be built up for ever; in the very heavens wilt thou establish thy faithfulness. <a id="c89_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have made a covenant with mine elect, I have sworn unto David my servant: <a id="c89_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne from generation to generation. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the heavens shall celebrate thy wonders, O Jehovah, and thy faithfulness in the congregation of the saints. <a id="c89_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For who in the heaven can be compared to Jehovah? who among the sons of the mighty shall be likened to Jehovah? <a id="c89_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is greatly to be feared in the council of the saints, and terrible for all that are round about him. <a id="c89_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah, God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of hosts, who is like unto thee, the strong Jah? And thy faithfulness is round about thee. <a id="c89_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou rulest the pride of the sea: when its waves arise, thou stillest them. <a id="c89_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou hast crushed Rahab as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with the arm of thy strength. <a id="c89_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thine are the heavens, the earth also is thine; the world and its fulness, thou hast founded them. <a id="c89_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The north and the south, thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon triumph in thy name. <a id="c89_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thine is the arm of might: strong is thy hand, high is thy right hand. <a id="c89_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Righteousness and judgment are the foundation of thy throne; loving-kindness and truth go before thy face.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Blessed is the people that know the shout of joy: they walk, O Jehovah, in the light of thy countenance. <a id="c89_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In thy name are they joyful all the day, and in thy righteousness are they exalted. <a id="c89_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For thou art the glory of their strength; and in thy favour our horn shall be exalted. <a id="c89_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For Jehovah is our shield, and the Holy One of Israel, our king.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then thou spakest in vision of thy Holy One, and saidst, I have laid help upon a mighty one; I have exalted one chosen out of the people. <a id="c89_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him: <a id="c89_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> With whom my hand shall be established; and mine arm shall strengthen him. <a id="c89_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> No enemy shall exact upon him, nor the son of wickedness afflict him; <a id="c89_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But I will beat down his adversaries before his face, and will smite them that hate him. <a id="c89_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And my faithfulness and my loving-kindness shall be with him, and by my name shall his horn be exalted. <a id="c89_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I will set his hand in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers. <a id="c89_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He shall call unto me, Thou art my father, my ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and the rock of my salvation; <a id="c89_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And as to me, I will make him firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. <a id="c89_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My loving-kindness will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him; <a id="c89_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I will establish his seed for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven. <a id="c89_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If his sons forsake my law, and walk not in mine ordinances; <a id="c89_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If they profane my statutes, and keep not my commandments: <a id="c89_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. <a id="c89_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Nevertheless my loving-kindness will I not utterly take from him, nor belie my faithfulness; <a id="c89_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> My covenant will I not profane, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips. <a id="c89_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Once have I sworn by my holiness; I will not lie unto David: <a id="c89_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me; <a id="c89_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> It shall be established for ever as the moon, and the witness in the sky is firm. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c89_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But thou hast rejected and cast off; thou hast been very wroth with thine anointed: <a id="c89_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant; thou hast profaned his crown to the ground: <a id="c89_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his strongholds to ruin. <a id="c89_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> All that pass by the way plunder him; he is become a reproach to his neighbours. <a id="c89_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Thou hast exalted the right hand of his oppressors; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice: <a id="c89_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Yea, thou hast turned back the edge of his sword, and hast not made him stand in the battle. <a id="c89_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Thou hast made his brightness to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground; <a id="c89_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The days of his youth hast thou shortened; thou hast covered him with shame. Selah. <a id="c89_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> How long, Jehovah, wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy fury burn like fire? <a id="c89_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Remember, as regards me, what life is. Wherefore hast thou created all the children of men to be vanity? <a id="c89_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> What man liveth, and shall not see death? Shall he deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah. <a id="c89_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Where, Lord, are thy former loving-kindnesses, which thou swarest unto David in thy faithfulness? <a id="c89_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants--that I bear in my bosom that of all the mighty peoples-- <a id="c89_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Wherewith thine enemies, O Jehovah, have reproached, wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed. <a id="c89_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Blessed be Jehovah for evermore! Amen, and Amen.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>