<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 132</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 132</h2>

<p><a id="c132_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, remember for David all his affliction; <a id="c132_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How he swore unto Jehovah, vowed unto the Mighty One of Jacob: <a id="c132_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will not come into the tent of my house, I will not go up to the couch of my bed; <a id="c132_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will not give sleep to mine eyes, slumber to mine eyelids, <a id="c132_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Until I find out a place for Jehovah, habitations for the Mighty One of Jacob. ... <a id="c132_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Behold, we heard of it at Ephratah, we found it in the fields of the wood. <a id="c132_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let us go into his habitations, let us worship at his footstool. <a id="c132_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Arise, Jehovah, into thy rest, thou and the ark of thy strength. <a id="c132_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness, and let thy saints shout for joy. <a id="c132_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thy servant David's sake, turn not away the face of thine anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c132_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from it: Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne; <a id="c132_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thy children keep my covenant, and my testimonies which I will teach them, their children also for evermore shall sit upon thy throne. <a id="c132_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For Jehovah hath chosen Zion; he hath desired it for his dwelling: <a id="c132_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> This is my rest for ever; here will I dwell, for I have desired it. <a id="c132_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will abundantly bless her provision; I will satisfy her needy ones with bread; <a id="c132_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will clothe her priests with salvation, and her saints shall shout aloud for joy. <a id="c132_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There will I cause the horn of David to bud forth; I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed. <a id="c132_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> His enemies will I clothe with shame; but upon himself shall his crown flourish.</p>

</body>
</html>