<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 119</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 119</h2>

<p><a id="c119_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed are the perfect in the way, who walk in the law of Jehovah. <a id="c119_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed are they that observe his testimonies, that seek him with the whole heart; <a id="c119_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who also do no unrighteousness: they walk in his ways.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou hast enjoined thy precepts, to be kept diligently. <a id="c119_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Oh that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes! <a id="c119_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will give thee thanks with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments. <a id="c119_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will keep thy statutes: forsake me not utterly.</p>

<p>BETH.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his path? by taking heed according to thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> With my whole heart have I sought thee: let me not wander from thy commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> have I hid in my heart, that I might not sin against thee.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed art thou, Jehovah! teach me thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth. <a id="c119_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all wealth. <a id="c119_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will meditate upon thy precepts, and have respect unto thy paths. <a id="c119_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I delight myself in thy statutes; I will not forget thy word.</p>

<p>GIMEL.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Deal bountifully with thy servant and I shall live; and I will keep thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Open mine eyes, and I shall behold wondrous things out of thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I am a stranger in the land; hide not thy commandments from me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My soul breaketh for longing after thy judgments at all times.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, who wander from thy commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Roll off from me reproach and contempt; for I observe thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Princes also did sit and talk together against me: thy servant doth meditate in thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counsellors.</p>

<p>DALETH.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken me according to thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I have declared my ways, and thou hast answered me: teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Make me to understand the way of thy precepts, and I will meditate upon thy wondrous works.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> My soul melteth for sadness: strengthen me according to thy word. <a id="c119_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Remove from me the way of falsehood, and graciously grant me thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I have chosen the way of faithfulness; thy judgments have I set before me. <a id="c119_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> I cleave unto thy testimonies; Jehovah, let me not be ashamed. <a id="c119_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I will run the way of thy commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart.</p>

<p>HE.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Teach me, O Jehovah, the way of thy statutes, and I will observe it unto the end. <a id="c119_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Give me understanding, and I will observe thy law; and I will keep it with my whole heart.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Make me to walk in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I delight. <a id="c119_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to gain.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; quicken me in thy way.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Establish thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> unto thy servant, who is devoted to thy fear.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Turn away my reproach which I fear; for thy judgments are good.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy righteousness.</p>

<p>VAU.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And let thy loving-kindness come unto me, O Jehovah, --thy salvation according to thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c119_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me; for I confide in thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; because I have hoped in thy judgments. <a id="c119_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then will I keep thy law continually, for ever and ever;</p>

<p><a id="c119_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And I will walk at liberty, for I have sought thy precepts; <a id="c119_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And I will speak of thy testimonies before kings, and will not be ashamed; <a id="c119_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved; <a id="c119_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And I will lift up my hands unto thy commandments, which I have loved, and I will meditate in thy statutes.</p>

<p>ZAIN.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Remember the word for thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> This is my comfort in mine affliction; for thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> hath quickened me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> The proud have derided me beyond measure: I have not declined from thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> I remembered thy judgments of old, O Jehovah, and have comforted myself.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Burning indignation hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked who forsake thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> I have remembered thy name, O Jehovah, in the night, and have kept thy law. <a id="c119_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> This I have had, because I have observed thy precepts.</p>

<p>CHETH.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> My portion, O Jehovah, I have said, is to keep thy words.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> I have sought thy favour with my whole heart: be gracious unto me according to thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c119_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> I have thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> I have made haste, and not delayed, to keep thy commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> The bands of the wicked have wrapped me round: I have not forgotten thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> At midnight I rise up to give thanks unto thee, because of thy righteous judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> I am the companion of all that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> The earth, O Jehovah, is full of thy loving-kindness: teach me thy statutes.</p>

<p>TETH.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O Jehovah, according to thy word. <a id="c119_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> Teach me good discernment and knowledge; for I have believed in thy commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c119_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> Thou art good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> The proud have forged falsehood against me: I will observe thy precepts with my whole heart. <a id="c119_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> Their heart is as fat as grease: as for me, I delight in thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver.</p>

<p>YOD.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, and I will learn thy commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> They that fear thee will see me, and rejoice; because I have hoped in thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> I know, Jehovah, that thy Judgments are righteousness, and that in faithfulness thou hast afflicted me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> Oh let thy loving-kindness be for my comfort, according to thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote7">*</a> unto thy servant. <a id="c119_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live; for thy law is my delight.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> Let the proud be ashamed; for they have acted perversely towards me with falsehood: as for me, I meditate in thy precepts. <a id="c119_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that know thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> Let my heart be perfect in thy statutes, that I be not ashamed.</p>

<p>CAPH.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v81"></a><span class="vn">81</span> My soul fainteth for thy salvation; I hope in thy word. <a id="c119_v82"></a><span class="vn">82</span> Mine eyes fail for thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote8">*</a> saying, When wilt thou comfort me?</p>

<p><a id="c119_v83"></a><span class="vn">83</span> For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; I do not forget thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v84"></a><span class="vn">84</span> How many shall be the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me?</p>

<p><a id="c119_v85"></a><span class="vn">85</span> The proud have digged pits for me, which is not according to thy law. <a id="c119_v86"></a><span class="vn">86</span> All thy commandments are faithfulness. They persecute me wrongfully: help thou me. <a id="c119_v87"></a><span class="vn">87</span> They had almost consumed me upon the earth; but as for me, I forsook not thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v88"></a><span class="vn">88</span> Quicken me according to thy loving-kindness, and I will keep the testimony of thy mouth.</p>

<p>LAMED.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v89"></a><span class="vn">89</span> For ever, O Jehovah, thy word is settled in the heavens. <a id="c119_v90"></a><span class="vn">90</span> Thy faithfulness is from generation to generation: thou hast established the earth, and it standeth. <a id="c119_v91"></a><span class="vn">91</span> By thine ordinances they stand this day; for all things are thy servants.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v92"></a><span class="vn">92</span> Unless thy law had been my delight, I should then have perished in mine affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v93"></a><span class="vn">93</span> I will never forget thy precepts; for by them thou hast quickened me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v94"></a><span class="vn">94</span> I am thine, save me; for I have sought thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v95"></a><span class="vn">95</span> The wicked have awaited me to destroy me; but I attend unto thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v96"></a><span class="vn">96</span> I have seen an end of all perfection: thy commandment is exceeding broad.</p>

<p>MEM.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v97"></a><span class="vn">97</span> Oh how I love thy law! it is my meditation all the day.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v98"></a><span class="vn">98</span> Thy commandments make me wiser than mine enemies; for they are ever with me. <a id="c119_v99"></a><span class="vn">99</span> I have more understanding than all my teachers; for thy testimonies are my meditation. <a id="c119_v100"></a><span class="vn">100</span> I understand more than the aged, because I have observed thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v101"></a><span class="vn">101</span> I have refrained my feet from every evil path, that I might keep thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v102"></a><span class="vn">102</span> I have not departed from thy judgments; for it is thou that hast taught me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v103"></a><span class="vn">103</span> How sweet are thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote9">*</a> unto my taste! more than honey to my mouth! <a id="c119_v104"></a><span class="vn">104</span> From thy precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false path.</p>

<p>NUN.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v105"></a><span class="vn">105</span> Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v106"></a><span class="vn">106</span> I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v107"></a><span class="vn">107</span> I am afflicted very much; O Jehovah, quicken me according to thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v108"></a><span class="vn">108</span> Accept, I beseech thee, Jehovah, the voluntary-offerings of my mouth, and teach me thy judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v109"></a><span class="vn">109</span> My life is continually in my hand; but I do not forget thy law. <a id="c119_v110"></a><span class="vn">110</span> The wicked have laid a snare for me; but I have not wandered from thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v111"></a><span class="vn">111</span> Thy testimonies have I taken as a heritage for ever; for they are the rejoicing of my heart. <a id="c119_v112"></a><span class="vn">112</span> I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes for ever, unto the end.</p>

<p>SAMECH.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v113"></a><span class="vn">113</span> The double-minded have I hated; but thy law do I love.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v114"></a><span class="vn">114</span> Thou art my hiding-place and my shield: I hope in thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v115"></a><span class="vn">115</span> Depart from me, ye evil-doers; and I will observe the commandments of my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote10">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c119_v116"></a><span class="vn">116</span> Uphold me according to thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote11">*</a> that I may live; and let me not be ashamed of my hope. <a id="c119_v117"></a><span class="vn">117</span> Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe; and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v118"></a><span class="vn">118</span> Thou hast set at nought all them that wander from thy statutes; for their deceit is falsehood. <a id="c119_v119"></a><span class="vn">119</span> Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross; therefore I love thy testimonies. <a id="c119_v120"></a><span class="vn">120</span> My flesh shuddereth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments.</p>

<p>AIN.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v121"></a><span class="vn">121</span> I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors. <a id="c119_v122"></a><span class="vn">122</span> Be surety for thy servant for good; let not the proud oppress me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v123"></a><span class="vn">123</span> Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote12">*</a> of thy righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v124"></a><span class="vn">124</span> Deal with thy servant according to thy loving-kindness, and teach me thy statutes. <a id="c119_v125"></a><span class="vn">125</span> I am thy servant; give me understanding that I may know thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v126"></a><span class="vn">126</span> It is time for Jehovah to work: they have made void thy law.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v127"></a><span class="vn">127</span> Therefore I love thy commandments above gold, yea, above fine gold. <a id="c119_v128"></a><span class="vn">128</span> Therefore I regard all thy precepts concerning all things to be right: I hate every false path.</p>

<p>PE.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v129"></a><span class="vn">129</span> Thy testimonies are wonderful; therefore doth my soul observe them.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v130"></a><span class="vn">130</span> The entrance of thy words giveth light, giving understanding unto the simple.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v131"></a><span class="vn">131</span> I opened my mouth wide and panted; for I longed for thy commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v132"></a><span class="vn">132</span> Turn unto me, and be gracious unto me, as thou art wont to do unto those that love thy name.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v133"></a><span class="vn">133</span> Establish my steps in thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote13">*</a> and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v134"></a><span class="vn">134</span> Deliver me from the oppression of man; and I will keep thy precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v135"></a><span class="vn">135</span> Make thy face to shine upon thy servant, and teach me thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v136"></a><span class="vn">136</span> Mine eyes run down with streams of water, because they keep not thy law.</p>

<p>TZADE.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v137"></a><span class="vn">137</span> Righteous art thou, Jehovah, and upright are thy judgments. <a id="c119_v138"></a><span class="vn">138</span> Thou hast commanded thy testimonies in righteousness and exceeding faithfulness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v139"></a><span class="vn">139</span> My zeal destroyeth me, because mine oppressors have forgotten thy words.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v140"></a><span class="vn">140</span> Thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote14">*</a> is exceeding pure, and thy servant loveth it.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v141"></a><span class="vn">141</span> I am little and despised: thy precepts have I not forgotten.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v142"></a><span class="vn">142</span> Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is truth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v143"></a><span class="vn">143</span> Trouble and anguish have taken hold upon me: thy commandments are my delights. <a id="c119_v144"></a><span class="vn">144</span> The righteousness of thy testimonies is for ever: give me understanding, and I shall live.</p>

<p>KOPH.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v145"></a><span class="vn">145</span> I have called with my whole heart; answer me, O Jehovah: I will observe thy statutes. <a id="c119_v146"></a><span class="vn">146</span> I call upon thee; save me, and I will keep thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v147"></a><span class="vn">147</span> I anticipate the morning-dawn and I cry: I hope in thy word. <a id="c119_v148"></a><span class="vn">148</span> Mine eyes anticipate the night-watches, that I may meditate in thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote15">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c119_v149"></a><span class="vn">149</span> Hear my voice according to thy loving-kindness: O Jehovah, quicken me according to thy judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v150"></a><span class="vn">150</span> They have drawn nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law. <a id="c119_v151"></a><span class="vn">151</span> Thou, Jehovah, art near, and all thy commandments are truth.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v152"></a><span class="vn">152</span> From thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them for ever.</p>

<p>RESH.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v153"></a><span class="vn">153</span> See mine affliction, and deliver me; for I have not forgotten thy law. <a id="c119_v154"></a><span class="vn">154</span> Plead my cause, and redeem me: quicken me according to thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote16">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c119_v155"></a><span class="vn">155</span> Salvation is far from the wicked; for they seek not thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v156"></a><span class="vn">156</span> Many are thy tender mercies, O Jehovah; quicken me according to thy judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v157"></a><span class="vn">157</span> Many are my persecutors and mine oppressors; I have not declined from thy testimonies.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v158"></a><span class="vn">158</span> I beheld them that deal treacherously, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote17">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c119_v159"></a><span class="vn">159</span> See how I have loved thy precepts: quicken me, O Jehovah, according to thy loving-kindness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v160"></a><span class="vn">160</span> The sum of thy word is truth, and every righteous judgment of thine is for ever.</p>

<p>SHIN.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v161"></a><span class="vn">161</span> Princes have persecuted me without a cause; but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v162"></a><span class="vn">162</span> I have joy in thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote18">*</a> as one that findeth great spoil.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v163"></a><span class="vn">163</span> I hate and abhor falsehood; thy law do I love.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v164"></a><span class="vn">164</span> Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v165"></a><span class="vn">165</span> Great peace have they that love thy law, and nothing doth stumble them.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v166"></a><span class="vn">166</span> I have hoped for thy salvation, O Jehovah, and have done thy commandments.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v167"></a><span class="vn">167</span> My soul hath kept thy testimonies, and I love them exceedingly. <a id="c119_v168"></a><span class="vn">168</span> I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies; for all my ways are before thee.</p>

<p>TAU.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v169"></a><span class="vn">169</span> Let my cry come near before thee, Jehovah: give me understanding according to thy word. <a id="c119_v170"></a><span class="vn">170</span> Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote19">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c119_v171"></a><span class="vn">171</span> My lips shall pour forth praise when thou hast taught me thy statutes.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v172"></a><span class="vn">172</span> My tongue shall speak aloud of thy word<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote20">*</a> for all thy commandments are righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v173"></a><span class="vn">173</span> Let thy hand be for my help; for I have chosen thy precepts. <a id="c119_v174"></a><span class="vn">174</span> I have longed for thy salvation, O Jehovah, and thy law is my delight.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v175"></a><span class="vn">175</span> Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me.</p>

<p><a id="c119_v176"></a><span class="vn">176</span> I have gone astray like a lost sheep: seek thy servant; for I have not forgotten thy commandments.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote7"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote8"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote9"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote10"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote11"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote12"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote13"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote14"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote15"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote16"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote17"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote18"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote19"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote20"><p>Hebrew: Imrah</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>