<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 41</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 41</h2>

<p><a id="c41_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed is he that understandeth the poor: Jehovah will deliver him in the day of evil. <a id="c41_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah will preserve him, and keep him alive; he shall be made happy in the land; and thou wilt not deliver him to the will of his enemies. <a id="c41_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah will sustain him upon the bed of languishing: thou turnest all his bed in his sickness. <a id="c41_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> As for me, I said, Jehovah, be gracious unto me: heal my soul; for I have sinned against thee.</p>

<p><a id="c41_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Mine enemies wish me evil: When will he die, and his name perish? <a id="c41_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if one come to see me, he speaketh falsehood; his heart gathereth wickedness to itself: he goeth abroad, he telleth it. <a id="c41_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All that hate me whisper together against me; against me do they devise my hurt. <a id="c41_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A thing of Belial cleaveth fast unto him; and now that he is laid down, he will rise up no more. <a id="c41_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I confided, who did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me. <a id="c41_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But thou, Jehovah, be gracious unto me, and raise me up, that I may requite them. <a id="c41_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By this I know that thou delightest in me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me. <a id="c41_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest me before thy face for ever. <a id="c41_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Blessed be Jehovah, the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel, from eternity to eternity! Amen, and Amen.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>