<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I will praise Jehovah with my whole heart; I will recount all thy marvellous works. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will be glad and rejoice in thee; I will sing forth thy name, O Most High. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When mine enemies turned back, they stumbled and perished at thy presence: <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast maintained my right and my cause. Thou sittest on the throne, judging righteously. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast rebuked the nations, thou hast destroyed the wicked; thou hast put out their name for ever and ever. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O enemy! destructions are ended for ever. --Thou hast also destroyed cities, even the remembrance of them hath perished. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But Jehovah sitteth for ever; he hath ordained his throne for judgment. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it is he that will judge the world with righteousness; he shall execute judgment upon the peoples with equity. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah will be a refuge to the oppressed one, a refuge in times of distress. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they that know thy name will confide in thee; for thou, Jehovah, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sing psalms to Jehovah who dwelleth in Zion; tell among the peoples his doings. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For when he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them; the cry of the afflicted ones hath he not forgotten. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be gracious unto me, O Jehovah; consider mine affliction from them that hate me, lifting me up from the gates of death: <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> That I may declare all thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion. I will be joyful in thy salvation. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The nations are sunk down in the pit that they made; in the net that they hid is their own foot taken. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jehovah is known by the judgment he hath executed: the wicked is ensnared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The wicked shall be turned into Sheol, all the nations that forget God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the needy one shall not be forgotten alway; the hope of the meek shall not perish for ever. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Arise, Jehovah; let not man prevail: let the nations be judged in thy sight. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Put them in fear, Jehovah: that the nations may know themselves to be but men. Selah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>