<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 140</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 140</h2>

<p><a id="c140_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Free me, O Jehovah, from the evil man; preserve me from the violent man: <a id="c140_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who devise mischiefs in their heart; every day are they banded together for war. <a id="c140_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They sharpen their tongues like a serpent; adders' poison is under their lips. Selah. <a id="c140_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Keep me, O Jehovah, from the hands of the wicked man, preserve me from the violent man, who devise to overthrow my steps. <a id="c140_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The proud have hidden a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the way-side; they have set traps for me. Selah. <a id="c140_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have said unto Jehovah, Thou art my ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> give ear, O Jehovah, to the voice of my supplications. <a id="c140_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah, the Lord, is the strength of my salvation: thou hast covered my head in the day of battle.</p>

<p><a id="c140_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Grant not, O Jehovah, the desire of the wicked; further not his device: they would exalt themselves. Selah. <a id="c140_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As for the head of those that encompass me, let the mischief of their own lips cover them. <a id="c140_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let burning coals fall on them; let them be cast into the fire; into deep waters, that they rise not up again. <a id="c140_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let not the man of evil tongue be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the man of violence to his ruin. <a id="c140_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I know that Jehovah will maintain the cause of the afflicted one, the right of the needy. <a id="c140_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yea, the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name; the upright shall dwell in thy presence.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>