<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 103</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 103</h2>

<p><a id="c103_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bless Jehovah, O my soul; and all that is within me, bless his holy name! <a id="c103_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bless Jehovah, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits: <a id="c103_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases; <a id="c103_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who redeemeth thy life from the pit, who crowneth thee with loving-kindness and tender mercies; <a id="c103_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who satisfieth thine old age with good things; thy youth is renewed like the eagle's.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah executeth righteousness and justice for all that are oppressed. <a id="c103_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel. <a id="c103_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in loving-kindness. <a id="c103_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger for ever. <a id="c103_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He hath not dealt with us according to our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. <a id="c103_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his loving-kindness toward them that fear him. <a id="c103_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. <a id="c103_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As a father pitieth his children, so Jehovah pitieth them that fear him. <a id="c103_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For himself knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust. <a id="c103_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As for man, his days are as grass; as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth: <a id="c103_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone, and the place thereof knoweth it no more. <a id="c103_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the loving-kindness of Jehovah is from everlasting and to everlasting, upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children, <a id="c103_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> To such as keep his covenant and to those that remember his precepts to do them.</p>

<p><a id="c103_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jehovah hath established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom ruleth over all. <a id="c103_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Bless Jehovah, ye his angels, mighty in strength, that execute his word, hearkening unto the voice of his word. <a id="c103_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Bless Jehovah, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of his that do his will. <a id="c103_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Bless Jehovah, all his works, in all places of his dominion. Bless Jehovah, O my soul!</p>

</body>
</html>