<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 102</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 102</h2>

<p><a id="c102_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, hear my prayer, and let my cry come unto thee. <a id="c102_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hide not thy face from me: in the day of my trouble, incline thine ear unto me; in the day I call, answer me speedily. <a id="c102_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as a firebrand. <a id="c102_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart is smitten and withered like grass; yea, I have forgotten to eat my bread. <a id="c102_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bones cleave to my flesh. <a id="c102_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I am become like the pelican of the wilderness, I am as an owl in desolate places; <a id="c102_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I watch, and am like a sparrow alone upon the housetop. <a id="c102_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Mine enemies reproach me all the day; they that are mad against me swear by me. <a id="c102_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping, <a id="c102_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because of thine indignation and thy wrath; for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down. <a id="c102_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My days are like a lengthened-out shadow, and I, I am withered like grass.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But thou, Jehovah, abidest for ever, and thy memorial from generation to generation. <a id="c102_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou wilt rise up, thou wilt have mercy upon Zion: for it is the time to be gracious to her, for the set time is come. <a id="c102_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour her dust. <a id="c102_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the nations shall fear the name of Jehovah, and all the kings of the earth thy glory. <a id="c102_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When Jehovah shall build up Zion, he will appear in his glory. <a id="c102_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He will regard the prayer of the destitute one, and not despise their prayer. <a id="c102_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> This shall be written for the generation to come; and a people that shall be created shall praise Jah: <a id="c102_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from the heavens hath Jehovah beheld the earth, <a id="c102_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> To hear the groaning of the prisoner, to loose those that are appointed to die; <a id="c102_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> That the name of Jehovah may be declared in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem, <a id="c102_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When the peoples shall be gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c102_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He weakened my strength in the way, he shortened my days. <a id="c102_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I said, My ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> take me not away in the midst of my days! ...Thy years are from generation to generation. <a id="c102_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Of old hast thou founded the earth, and the heavens are the work of thy hands: <a id="c102_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They shall perish, but thou continuest; and all of them shall grow old as a garment: as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed. <a id="c102_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But thou art the Same, and thy years shall have no end. <a id="c102_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The children of thy servants shall abide, and their seed shall be established before thee.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>