<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Fret not thyself because of evil-doers, and be not envious of them that work unrighteousness; <a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and fade as the green herb. <a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Confide in Jehovah, and do good; dwell in the land, and feed on faithfulness; <a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and delight thyself in Jehovah, and he will give thee the desires of thy heart. <a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Commit thy way unto Jehovah, and rely upon him: he will bring it to pass; <a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and he will bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Rest in Jehovah, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself because of him that prospereth in his way, because of the man that bringeth mischievous devices to pass. <a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cease from anger, and forsake wrath; fret not thyself: it would be only to do evil. <a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For evil-doers shall be cut off; but those that wait on Jehovah, they shall possess the land. <a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For yet a little while, and the wicked is not; and thou considerest his place, but he is not. <a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the meek shall possess the land, and shall delight themselves in the abundance of prosperity. <a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wicked plotteth against the righteous, and gnasheth his teeth against him. <a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Lord laugheth at him; for he seeth that his day is coming. <a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the afflicted and needy, to slay those that are upright in the way: <a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken. <a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The little that the righteous hath is better than the abundance of many wicked; <a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but Jehovah upholdeth the righteous. <a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jehovah knoweth the days of the perfect; and their inheritance shall be for ever: <a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> they shall not be ashamed in the time of evil, and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied. <a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of Jehovah shall be as the fat of lambs: they shall consume, like smoke shall they consume away.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again; but the righteous is gracious and giveth: <a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for those blessed of him shall possess the land, and they that are cursed of him shall be cut off. <a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The steps of a man are established by Jehovah, and he delighteth in his way: <a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down, for Jehovah upholdeth his hand. <a id="c37_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I have been young, and now am old, and I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed seeking bread: <a id="c37_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> all the day he is gracious and lendeth, and his seed shall be a blessing. <a id="c37_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Depart from evil, and do good, and dwell for evermore; <a id="c37_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> for Jehovah loveth judgment, and will not forsake his saints: They are preserved for ever; but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off. <a id="c37_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The righteous shall possess the land, and dwell therein for ever. <a id="c37_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The mouth of the righteous proffereth wisdom, and his tongue speaketh judgment; <a id="c37_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> the law of his God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is in his heart; his goings shall not slide. <a id="c37_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him: <a id="c37_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Jehovah will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Wait for Jehovah, and keep his way, and he will exalt thee to possess the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it. <a id="c37_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading like a green tree in its native soil: <a id="c37_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> but he passed away, and behold, he was not; and I sought him, but he was not found. <a id="c37_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Mark the perfect, and behold the upright, for the end of that man is peace; <a id="c37_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> but the transgressors shall be destroyed together; the future of the wicked shall be cut off. <a id="c37_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But the salvation of the righteous is of Jehovah: he is their strength in the time of trouble. <a id="c37_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Jehovah will help them and deliver them: he will deliver them from the wicked, and save them; for they trust in him.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>