<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 104</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 104</h2>

<p><a id="c104_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bless Jehovah, O my soul! Jehovah my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> thou art very great; thou art clothed with majesty and splendour; <a id="c104_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Covering thyself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent-curtain; -- <a id="c104_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who layeth the beams of his upper chambers in the waters, who maketh clouds his chariot, who walketh upon the wings of the wind; <a id="c104_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flame of fire. <a id="c104_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He laid the earth upon its foundations: it shall not be removed for ever. <a id="c104_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou hadst covered it with the deep, as with a vesture; the waters stood above the mountains: <a id="c104_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> At thy rebuke they fled, at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away; -- <a id="c104_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The mountains rose, the valleys sank, unto the place which thou hadst founded for them; -- <a id="c104_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast set a bound which they may not pass over, that they turn not again to cover the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He sendeth the springs into the valleys: they run among the mountains; <a id="c104_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They give drink to every beast of the field; the wild asses quench their thirst. <a id="c104_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The birds of heaven dwell by them; they give forth their voice from among the branches. <a id="c104_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He watereth the mountains from his upper-chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works. <a id="c104_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He maketh the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man; bringing forth bread out of the earth, <a id="c104_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And wine which gladdeneth the heart of man; making his face shine with oil; and with bread he strengtheneth man's heart. <a id="c104_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The trees of Jehovah are satisfied, the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted, <a id="c104_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Where the birds make their nests; as for the stork, the fir trees are her house. <a id="c104_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The high mountains are for the wild goats; the cliffs, a refuge for the rock-badgers.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He made the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth its going down. <a id="c104_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou makest darkness, and it is night, wherein all the beasts of the forest creep forth: <a id="c104_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The young lions roar after the prey, and to seek their food from ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c104_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sun ariseth, they retreat, and lay them down in their dens. <a id="c104_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Man goeth forth unto his work, and to his labour until the evening. <a id="c104_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> How manifold are thy works, O Jehovah! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches. <a id="c104_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Yonder is the great and wide sea: therein are moving things innumerable, living creatures small and great. <a id="c104_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There go the ships; there that leviathan, which thou hast formed to play therein. <a id="c104_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These all look unto thee, that thou mayest give their food in its season: <a id="c104_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> That thou givest unto them, they gather; thou openest thy hand, they are filled with good. <a id="c104_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled; thou takest away their breath, they expire and return to their dust. <a id="c104_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created, and thou renewest the face of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c104_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The glory of Jehovah will endure for ever; Jehovah will rejoice in his works. <a id="c104_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth; he toucheth the mountains, and they smoke. <a id="c104_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I will sing unto Jehovah as long as I live; I will sing psalms to my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> while I have my being. <a id="c104_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> My meditation shall be pleasant unto him; I will rejoice in Jehovah. <a id="c104_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Sinners shall be consumed out of the earth, and the wicked shall be no more. Bless Jehovah, O my soul. Hallelujah!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>