<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The king shall joy in thy strength, Jehovah; and in thy salvation how greatly shall he rejoice. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden the request of his lips. Selah. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou hast met him with the blessings of goodness; thou hast set a crown of pure gold on his head. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He asked life of thee; thou gavest it him, length of days for ever and ever. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His glory is great through thy salvation; majesty and splendour hast thou laid upon him. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thou hast made him to be blessings for ever; thou hast filled him with joy by thy countenance.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the king confideth in Jehovah: and through the loving-kindness of the Most High he shall not be moved. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy hand shall find out all thine enemies; thy right hand shall find out those that hate thee. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou shalt make them as a fiery furnace in the time of thy presence; Jehovah shall swallow them up in his anger, and the fire shall devour them: <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of men. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For they intended evil against thee; they imagined a mischievous device, which they could not execute. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For thou wilt make them turn their back; thou wilt make ready thy bowstring against their face. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be thou exalted, Jehovah, in thine own strength: we will sing and celebrate thy power.</p>

</body>
</html>