<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Why are the nations in tumultuous agitation, and why do the peoples meditate a vain thing? <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The kings of the earth set themselves, and the princes plot together, against Jehovah and against his anointed: <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let us break their bonds asunder, and cast away their cords from us! <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He that dwelleth in the heavens shall laugh, the Lord shall have them in derision. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then will he speak to them in his anger, and in his fierce displeasure will he terrify them: <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I have anointed my king upon Zion, the hill of my holiness.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will declare the decree: Jehovah hath said unto me, Thou art my Son; I this day have begotten thee. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ask of me, and I will give thee nations for an inheritance, and for thy possession the ends of the earth: <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou shalt break them with a sceptre of iron, as a potter's vessel thou shalt dash them in pieces.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And now, O kings, be ye wise, be admonished, ye judges of the earth. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Serve Jehovah with fear, and rejoice with trembling. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish in the way, though his anger burn but a little. Blessed are all who have their trust in him.</p>

</body>
</html>