<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 118</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 118</h2>

<p><a id="c118_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ye thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; for his loving-kindness endureth for ever. <a id="c118_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Oh let Israel say, that his loving-kindness endureth for ever. <a id="c118_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Oh let the house of Aaron say, that his loving-kindness endureth for ever. <a id="c118_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Oh let them that fear Jehovah say, that his loving-kindness endureth for ever. <a id="c118_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I called upon Jah in distress; Jah answered me and set me in a large place. <a id="c118_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah is for me, I will not fear; what can man do unto me? <a id="c118_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah is for me among them that help me; and I shall see my desire upon them that hate me. <a id="c118_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> It is better to trust in Jehovah than to put confidence in man; <a id="c118_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is better to trust in Jehovah than to put confidence in nobles. <a id="c118_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All nations encompassed me; but in the name of Jehovah have I destroyed them. <a id="c118_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They encompassed me, yea, encompassed me; but in the name of Jehovah have I destroyed them. <a id="c118_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They encompassed me like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of Jehovah have I destroyed them. <a id="c118_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou hast thrust hard at me that I might fall; but Jehovah helped me. <a id="c118_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My strength and song is Jah, and he is become my salvation. <a id="c118_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The voice of triumph and salvation is in the tents of the righteous: the right hand of Jehovah doeth valiantly; <a id="c118_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The right hand of Jehovah is exalted, the right hand of Jehovah doeth valiantly. <a id="c118_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of Jah. <a id="c118_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Jah hath chastened me sore; but he hath not given me over unto death.</p>

<p><a id="c118_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will enter into them; Jah will I praise. <a id="c118_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> This is the gate of Jehovah: the righteous shall enter therein. <a id="c118_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I will give thee thanks, for thou hast answered me, and art become my salvation. <a id="c118_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The stone which the builders rejected hath become the head of the corner: <a id="c118_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This is of Jehovah; it is wonderful in our eyes. <a id="c118_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> This is the day that Jehovah hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it. <a id="c118_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Oh save, Jehovah, I beseech thee; Jehovah, I beseech thee, oh send prosperity! <a id="c118_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Blessed be he that cometh in the name of Jehovah. We have blessed you out of the house of Jehovah. <a id="c118_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Jehovah is ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and he hath given us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, --up to the horns of the altar. <a id="c118_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou art my ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and I will give thee thanks; my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> I will exalt thee. <a id="c118_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Give ye thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; for his loving-kindness endureth for ever.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>