<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 139</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 139</h2>

<p><a id="c139_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, thou hast searched me, and known me. <a id="c139_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou knowest my down-sitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off; <a id="c139_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou searchest out my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways; <a id="c139_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For there is not yet a word on my tongue, but lo, O Jehovah, thou knowest it altogether. <a id="c139_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thy hand upon me. <a id="c139_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> O knowledge too wonderful for me! it is high, I cannot attain unto it.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whither shall I go from thy Spirit? and whither flee from thy presence? <a id="c139_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If I ascend up into the heavens thou art there; or if I make my bed in Sheol, behold, thou art there; <a id="c139_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If I take the wings of the dawn and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, <a id="c139_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me. <a id="c139_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And if I say, Surely darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night; <a id="c139_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Even darkness hideth not from thee, and the night shineth as the day: the darkness is as the light. <a id="c139_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For thou hast possessed my reins; thou didst cover me in my mother's womb. <a id="c139_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will praise thee, for I am fearfully, wonderfully made. Marvellous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well. <a id="c139_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My bones were not hidden from thee when I was made in secret, curiously wrought in the lower parts of the earth. <a id="c139_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thine eyes did see my unformed substance, and in thy book all my members were written; during many days were they fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.</p>

<p><a id="c139_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But how precious are thy thoughts unto me, O ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> how great is the sum of them! <a id="c139_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand. When I awake, I am still with thee. <a id="c139_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Oh that thou wouldest slay the wicked, O +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> And ye men of blood, depart from me. <a id="c139_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For they speak of thee wickedly, they take thy name in vain, thine enemies. <a id="c139_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Do not I hate them, O Jehovah, that hate thee? and do not I loathe them that rise up against thee? <a id="c139_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I hate them with perfect hatred; I account them mine enemies. <a id="c139_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Search me, O ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and know my heart; prove me, and know my thoughts; <a id="c139_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And see if there be any grievous way in me; and lead me in the way everlasting.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>