<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered! <a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Blessed is the man unto whom Jehovah reckoneth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile! <a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When I kept silence, my bones waxed old, through my groaning all the day long. <a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me; my moisture was turned into the drought of summer. Selah. <a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity I covered not; I said, I will confess my transgressions unto Jehovah, and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah. <a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee at a time when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they will not reach him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou art a hiding-place for me; thou preservest me from trouble; thou dost encompass me with songs of deliverance. Selah. <a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will instruct thee and teach thee the way in which thou shalt go; I will counsel thee with mine eye upon thee. <a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be ye not as a horse, as a mule, which have no understanding: whose trappings must be bit and bridle, for restraint, or they will not come unto thee. <a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Many sorrows hath the wicked; but he that confideth in Jehovah, loving-kindness shall encompass him. <a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rejoice in Jehovah, and be glad, ye righteous; and shout for joy, all ye upright in heart.</p>

</body>
</html>