<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 90</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 90</h2>

<p><a id="c90_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place in all generations. <a id="c90_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Before the mountains were brought forth, and thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from eternity to eternity thou art ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c90_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou makest mortal man to return to dust, and sayest, Return, children of men. <a id="c90_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For a thousand years, in thy sight, are as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night. <a id="c90_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: in the morning they are like grass that groweth up: <a id="c90_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the morning it flourisheth and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down and withereth.</p>

<p><a id="c90_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy fury are we troubled. <a id="c90_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance. <a id="c90_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For all our days pass away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a passing thought. <a id="c90_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if, by reason of strength, they be fourscore years, yet their pride is labour and vanity, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. <a id="c90_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Who knoweth the power of thine anger? and thy wrath according to the fear of thee?</p>

<p><a id="c90_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So teach us to number our days, that we may acquire a wise heart. <a id="c90_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Return, Jehovah: how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants. <a id="c90_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Satisfy us early with thy loving-kindness; that we may sing for joy and be glad all our days. <a id="c90_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, according to the years wherein we have seen evil. <a id="c90_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy majesty unto their sons. <a id="c90_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And let the beauty of Jehovah our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> be upon us; and establish thou the work of our hands upon us: yea, the work of our hands, establish thou it.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>