<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 143</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 143</h2>

<p><a id="c143_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, hear my prayer; give ear to my supplications: in thy faithfulness answer me, in thy righteousness. <a id="c143_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And enter not into judgment with thy servant; for in thy sight no man living shall be justified. <a id="c143_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the enemy persecuteth my soul: he hath crushed my life down to the earth; he hath made me to dwell in dark places, as those that have been long dead. <a id="c143_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And my spirit is overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is desolate. <a id="c143_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I remember the days of old: I meditate on all thy doing; I muse on the work of thy hands. <a id="c143_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I stretch forth my hands unto thee: my soul, as a parched land, thirsteth after thee. Selah.</p>

<p><a id="c143_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Answer me speedily, O Jehovah; my spirit faileth: hide not thy face from me, or I shall be like unto them that go down into the pit. <a id="c143_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Cause me to hear thy loving-kindness in the morning, for in thee do I confide; make me to know the way wherein I should walk, for unto thee do I lift up my soul. <a id="c143_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Deliver me, O Jehovah, from mine enemies: unto thee do I flee for refuge. <a id="c143_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Teach me to do thy will; for thou art my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> let thy good Spirit lead me in a plain country. <a id="c143_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Revive me, O Jehovah, for thy name's sake; in thy righteousness bring my soul out of trouble; <a id="c143_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And in thy loving-kindness cut off mine enemies, and destroy all them that oppress my soul: for I am thy servant.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>