<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear the right, O Jehovah, attend unto my cry; give ear unto my prayer, which is not out of feigned lips. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my judgment come forth from thy presence, let thine eyes regard equity. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast proved my heart, thou hast visited me by night; thou hast tried me, thou hast found nothing: my thought goeth not beyond my word. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept from the paths of the violent man. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When thou holdest my goings in thy paths, my footsteps slip not. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have called upon thee, for thou answerest me, O ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Incline thine ear unto me, hear my speech. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Shew wondrously thy loving-kindnesses, O thou that savest by thy right hand them that trust in thee from those that rise up against them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy wings, <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the wicked that destroy me, my deadly enemies, who compass me about. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They are enclosed in their own fat; with their mouth they speak proudly. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They have now encompassed us in our steps; their eyes have they set, bowing down to the earth. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He is like a lion that is greedy of its prey, and as a young lion lurking in secret places. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Arise, Jehovah, anticipate him, cast him down: deliver my soul from the wicked, thy sword; <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From men who are thy hand, O Jehovah, from men of this age: their portion is in this life, and their belly thou fillest with thy hid treasure; they have their fill of sons, and leave the rest of their substance to their children. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>