<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 109</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 109</h2>

<p><a id="c109_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of my praise, be not silent: <a id="c109_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the mouth of the wicked man and the mouth of deceit are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue, <a id="c109_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And with words of hatred have they encompassed me; and they fight against me without a cause. <a id="c109_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For my love they are mine adversaries; but I give myself unto prayer. <a id="c109_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Set a wicked man over him, and let the adversary stand at his right hand; <a id="c109_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When he shall be judged, let him go out guilty, and let his prayer become sin; <a id="c109_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let his days be few, let another take his office; <a id="c109_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let his sons be fatherless, and his wife a widow; <a id="c109_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Let his sons be vagabonds and beg, and let them seek their bread far from their desolate places; <a id="c109_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let the usurer cast the net over all that he hath, and let strangers despoil his labour; <a id="c109_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let there be none to extend kindness unto him, neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children; <a id="c109_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let his posterity be cut off; in the generation following let their name be blotted out: <a id="c109_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with Jehovah, and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out; <a id="c109_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them be before Jehovah continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth: <a id="c109_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Because he remembered not to shew kindness, but persecuted the afflicted and needy man, and the broken in heart, to slay him. <a id="c109_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he loved cursing; so let it come unto him. And he delighted not in blessing; and let it be far from him. <a id="c109_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he clothed himself with cursing like his vestment; so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones; <a id="c109_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let it be unto him as a garment with which he covereth himself, and for a girdle wherewith he is constantly girded. <a id="c109_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from Jehovah, and of them that speak evil against my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c109_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But do thou for me, Jehovah, Lord, for thy name's sake; because thy loving-kindness is good, deliver me: <a id="c109_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I am afflicted and needy, and my heart is wounded within me. <a id="c109_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I am gone like a shadow when it lengtheneth; I am tossed about like the locust; <a id="c109_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My knees are failing through fasting, and my flesh hath lost its fatness; <a id="c109_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I am become a reproach unto them; when they look upon me they shake their heads. <a id="c109_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Help me, Jehovah my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> save me according to thy loving-kindness: <a id="c109_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> That they may know that this is thy hand; that thou, Jehovah, hast done it. <a id="c109_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Let them curse, but bless thou; when they rise up, let them be ashamed, and let thy servant rejoice. <a id="c109_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Let mine adversaries be clothed with confusion, and let them cover themselves with their shame as with a mantle. <a id="c109_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will greatly celebrate Jehovah with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude. <a id="c109_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For he standeth at the right hand of the needy, to save him from those that judge his soul.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>