<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Preserve me, O ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> for I trust in thee. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou my soul hast said to Jehovah, Thou art the Lord: my goodness extendeth not to thee; -- <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To the saints that are on the earth, and to the excellent thou hast said, In them is all my delight. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another: their drink-offerings of blood will I not offer, and I will not take up their names into my lips. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jehovah is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou maintainest my lot. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will bless Jehovah, who giveth me counsel; even in the nights my reins instruct me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I have set Jehovah continually before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore my heart rejoiceth, and my glory exulteth; my flesh moreover shall dwell in hope. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou wilt not leave my soul to Sheol, neither wilt thou allow thy Holy One to see corruption. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou wilt make known to me the path of life: thy countenance is fulness of joy; at thy right hand are pleasures for evermore.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>