<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 107</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 107</h2>

<p><a id="c107_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ye thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; for his loving-kindness endureth for ever. <a id="c107_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let the redeemed of Jehovah say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the oppressor, <a id="c107_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And gathered out of the countries, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the sea. <a id="c107_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way, they found no city of habitation; <a id="c107_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them: <a id="c107_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then they cried unto Jehovah in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses, <a id="c107_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he led them forth by a right way, that they might go to a city of habitation. <a id="c107_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let them give thanks unto Jehovah for his loving-kindness, and for his wondrous works to the children of men; <a id="c107_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he hath satisfied the longing soul and filled the hungry soul with good.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Such as inhabit darkness and the shadow of death, bound in affliction and iron, <a id="c107_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Because they had rebelled against the words of ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and had despised the counsel of the Most High; ... <a id="c107_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he bowed down their heart with labour; they stumbled, and there was none to help: <a id="c107_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then they cried unto Jehovah in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses; <a id="c107_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke their bands in sunder. <a id="c107_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let them give thanks unto Jehovah for his loving-kindness, and for his wondrous works to the children of men; <a id="c107_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For he hath broken the gates of bronze, and cut asunder the bars of iron.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fools, because of their way of transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted; <a id="c107_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Their soul abhorreth all manner of food, and they draw near unto the gates of death: <a id="c107_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then they cry unto Jehovah in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses; <a id="c107_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He sendeth his word, and healeth them, and delivereth them from their destructions. <a id="c107_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let them give thanks unto Jehovah for his loving-kindness, and for his wondrous works to the children of men, <a id="c107_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works in joyful song.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters, <a id="c107_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> These see the works of Jehovah, and his wonders in the deep. <a id="c107_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he speaketh, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof: <a id="c107_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They mount up to the heavens, they go down to the depths; their soul is melted because of trouble; <a id="c107_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and they are at their wits' end: <a id="c107_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then they cry unto Jehovah in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses; <a id="c107_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He maketh the storm a calm, and the waves thereof are still: <a id="c107_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And they rejoice because they are quiet; and he bringeth them unto their desired haven. <a id="c107_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let them give thanks unto Jehovah for his loving-kindness, and for his wondrous works to the children of men; <a id="c107_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the session of the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c107_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He maketh rivers into a wilderness, and water-springs into dry ground; <a id="c107_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> A fruitful land into a plain of salt, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein. <a id="c107_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He maketh the wilderness into a pool of water, and the dry land into water-springs; <a id="c107_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, and they establish a city of habitation; <a id="c107_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And sow fields, and plant vineyards, which yield fruits of increase; <a id="c107_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he blesseth them, so that they are multiplied greatly; and he suffereth not their cattle to decrease. <a id="c107_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they are diminished and brought low, through oppression, adversity, and sorrow: <a id="c107_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> He poureth contempt upon nobles, and causeth them to wander in a pathless waste; <a id="c107_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> But he secureth the needy one on high from affliction, and maketh him families like flocks. <a id="c107_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The upright shall see it, and rejoice; and all unrighteousness shall stop its mouth. <a id="c107_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Whoso is wise, let him observe these things, and let them understand the loving-kindnesses of Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>