<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 63</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 63</h2>

<p><a id="c63_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> thou art my ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh languisheth for thee, in a dry and weary land without water: <a id="c63_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To see thy power and thy glory, as I have beheld thee in the sanctuary;</p>

<p><a id="c63_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thy loving-kindness is better than life: my lips shall praise thee. <a id="c63_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So will I bless thee while I live; I will lift up my hands in thy name. <a id="c63_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My soul is satisfied as with marrow and fatness, and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips. <a id="c63_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When I remember thee upon my bed, I meditate on thee in the night-watches:</p>

<p><a id="c63_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For thou hast been my help, and in the shadow of thy wings will I sing for joy. <a id="c63_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me. <a id="c63_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth; <a id="c63_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They shall be given over to the power of the sword; they shall be the portion of foxes. <a id="c63_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the king shall rejoice in God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> every one that sweareth by him shall glory: for the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>