<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 92</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 92</h2>

<p><a id="c92_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> It is good to give thanks unto Jehovah, and to sing psalms unto thy name, O Most High; <a id="c92_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> To declare thy loving-kindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness in the nights, <a id="c92_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Upon an instrument of ten strings and upon the lute; upon the Higgaion with the harp. <a id="c92_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou, Jehovah, hast made me glad through thy work; I will triumph in the works of thy hands. <a id="c92_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jehovah, how great are thy works! Thy thoughts are very deep: <a id="c92_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A brutish man knoweth not, neither doth a fool understand it.</p>

<p><a id="c92_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity flourish, it is that they may be destroyed for ever. <a id="c92_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou, Jehovah, art on high for evermore. <a id="c92_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For lo, thine enemies, O Jehovah, for lo, thine enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered. <a id="c92_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But my horn shalt thou exalt like a buffalo's: I shall be anointed with fresh oil. <a id="c92_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And mine eye shall see its desire on mine enemies; mine ears shall hear it of the evil-doers that rise up against me. <a id="c92_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The righteous shall shoot forth like a palm-tree; he shall grow like a cedar on Lebanon. <a id="c92_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Those that are planted in the house of Jehovah shall flourish in the courts of our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c92_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They are still vigorous in old age, they are full of sap and green; <a id="c92_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> To shew that Jehovah is upright: he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>