<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Strive, O Jehovah, with them that strive with me; fight against them that fight against me: <a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for my help; <a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And draw out the spear, and stop the way against my pursuers: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation. <a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let them be put to shame and confounded that seek after my life; let them be turned backward and brought to confusion that devise my hurt: <a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let them be as chaff before the wind, and let the angel of Jehovah drive them away; <a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let their way be dark and slippery, and let the angel of Jehovah pursue them. <a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For without cause have they hidden for me their net in a pit; without cause they have digged it for my soul. <a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let destruction come upon him unawares, and let his net which he hath hidden catch himself: for destruction let him fall therein. <a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And my soul shall be joyful in Jehovah; it shall rejoice in his salvation. <a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All my bones shall say, Jehovah, who is like unto thee, who deliverest the afflicted from one stronger than he, yea, the afflicted and the needy from him that spoileth him!</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Unrighteous witnesses rise up; they lay to my charge things which I know not. <a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They reward me evil for good, to the bereavement of my soul. <a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth; I chastened my soul with fasting, and my prayer returned into mine own bosom: <a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I behaved myself as though he had been a friend, a brother to me; I bowed down in sadness, as one that mourneth for a mother. <a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But at my halting they rejoiced, and gathered together: the slanderers gathered themselves together against me, and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not: <a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With profane jesters for bread, they have gnashed their teeth against me.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Lord, how long wilt thou look on? Rescue my soul from their destructions, my only one from the young lions. <a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will give thee thanks in the great congregation; I will praise thee among much people. <a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let not them that are wrongfully mine enemies rejoice over me; let them not wink with the eye that hate me without cause. <a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For they speak not peace; and they devise deceitful words against the quiet in the land. <a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they opened their mouth wide against me; they said, Aha! aha! our eye hath seen it. <a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou hast seen it, Jehovah: keep not silence; O Lord, be not far from me. <a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Stir up thyself, and awake for my right, for my cause, my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and Lord! <a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Judge me, Jehovah my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> according to thy righteousness, and let them not rejoice over me. <a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let them not say in their heart, Aha! so would we have it. Let them not say, We have swallowed him up. <a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at mine adversity; let them be clothed with shame and dishonour that magnify themselves against me. <a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Let them exult and rejoice that delight in my righteousness; and let them say continually, Jehovah be magnified, who delighteth in the prosperity of his servant. <a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And my tongue shall talk of thy righteousness, and of thy praise, all the day.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>