<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 105</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 105</h2>

<p><a id="c105_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Give ye thanks unto Jehovah, call upon his name; make known his acts among the peoples. <a id="c105_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him; meditate upon all his wondrous works. <a id="c105_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek Jehovah. <a id="c105_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Seek Jehovah and his strength, seek his face continually; <a id="c105_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Remember his wondrous works which he hath done, his miracles and the judgments of his mouth: <a id="c105_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye sons of Jacob, his chosen ones. <a id="c105_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He, Jehovah, is our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> his judgments are in all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He is ever mindful of his covenant, --the word which he commanded to a thousand generations, -- <a id="c105_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Which he made with Abraham, and of his oath unto Isaac; <a id="c105_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he confirmed it unto Jacob for a statute, unto Israel for an everlasting covenant, <a id="c105_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance; <a id="c105_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they were a few men in number, of small account, and strangers in it. <a id="c105_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they went from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people. <a id="c105_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He suffered no man to oppress them, and reproved kings for their sakes, <a id="c105_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Saying, Touch not mine anointed ones, and do my prophets no harm. <a id="c105_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he called for a famine upon the land; he broke the whole staff of bread. <a id="c105_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He sent a man before them: Joseph was sold for a bondman. <a id="c105_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They afflicted his feet with fetters; his soul came into irons; <a id="c105_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Until the time when what he said came about: the word of Jehovah tried him. <a id="c105_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The king sent and loosed him--the ruler of peoples--and let him go free. <a id="c105_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He made him lord of his house, and ruler over all his possessions: <a id="c105_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> To bind his princes at his pleasure, and teach his elders wisdom. <a id="c105_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Israel came into Egypt, and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. <a id="c105_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he made his people exceeding fruitful, and made them mightier than their oppressors.</p>

<p><a id="c105_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants. <a id="c105_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He sent Moses his servant, and Aaron whom he had chosen: <a id="c105_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They set his signs among them, and miracles in the land of Ham. <a id="c105_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word. <a id="c105_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He turned their waters into blood, and caused their fish to die. <a id="c105_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Their land swarmed with frogs, --in the chambers of their kings. <a id="c105_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He spoke, and there came dog-flies, and gnats in all their borders. <a id="c105_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land; <a id="c105_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he smote their vines and their fig-trees, and broke the trees of their borders. <a id="c105_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He spoke, and the locust came, and the cankerworm, even without number; <a id="c105_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they devoured every herb in their land, and ate up the fruit of their ground. <a id="c105_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he smote every firstborn in their land, the firstfruits of all their vigour. <a id="c105_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he brought them forth with silver and gold; and there was not one feeble among their tribes. <a id="c105_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Egypt rejoiced at their departure; for the fear of them had fallen upon them. <a id="c105_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light in the night. <a id="c105_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> They asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. <a id="c105_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He opened the rock, and waters gushed forth; they ran in the dry places like a river. <a id="c105_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> For he remembered his holy word, and Abraham his servant; <a id="c105_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And he brought forth his people with gladness, his chosen with rejoicing; <a id="c105_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he gave them the lands of the nations, and they took possession of the labour of the peoples: <a id="c105_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> That they might keep his statutes, and observe his laws. Hallelujah!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>