<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 88</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 88</h2>

<p><a id="c88_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of my salvation, I have cried by day and in the night before thee. <a id="c88_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let my prayer come before thee; incline thine ear unto my cry. <a id="c88_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For my soul is full of troubles, and my life draweth nigh to Sheol. <a id="c88_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I am reckoned with them that go down into the pit; I am as a man that hath no strength: <a id="c88_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Prostrate among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave; whom thou rememberest no more, and who are cut off from thy hand. <a id="c88_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in dark places, in the deeps. <a id="c88_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thy fury lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with all thy waves. Selah. <a id="c88_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hast put my familiar friends far from me; thou hast made me an abomination unto them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth. <a id="c88_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Mine eye consumeth by reason of affliction. Upon thee, Jehovah, have I called every day; I have stretched out my hands unto thee.</p>

<p><a id="c88_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wilt thou do wonders to the dead? shall the shades arise and praise thee? Selah. <a id="c88_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall thy loving-kindness be declared in the grave? thy faithfulness in Destruction? <a id="c88_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? <a id="c88_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as for me, Jehovah, I cry unto thee, and in the morning my prayer cometh before thee. <a id="c88_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Why, O Jehovah, castest thou off my soul? why hidest thou thy face from me? <a id="c88_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I am afflicted and expiring from my youth up; I suffer thy terrors, and I am distracted. <a id="c88_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thy fierce anger hath gone over me; thy terrors have brought me to nought: <a id="c88_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They have surrounded me all the day like water; they have compassed me about together. <a id="c88_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lover and associate hast thou put far from me: my familiar friends are darkness.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>