<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 91</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 91</h2>

<p><a id="c91_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. <a id="c91_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I say of Jehovah, My refuge and my fortress; my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> I will confide in him. <a id="c91_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the destructive pestilence. <a id="c91_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou find refuge: his truth is a shield and buckler. <a id="c91_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night, for the arrow that flieth by day, <a id="c91_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the pestilence that walketh in darkness, for the destruction that wasteth at noonday. <a id="c91_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee. <a id="c91_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold, and see the reward of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c91_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because thou hast made Jehovah, my refuge, the Most High, thy dwelling-place, <a id="c91_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy tent. <a id="c91_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he shall give his angels charge concerning thee, to keep thee in all thy ways: <a id="c91_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. <a id="c91_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou shalt tread upon the lion and the adder; the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under foot. <a id="c91_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him; I will set him on high, because he hath known my name. <a id="c91_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He shall call upon me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble, I will deliver him and honour him. <a id="c91_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> With length of days will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>