<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The heavens declare the glory of ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and the expanse sheweth the work of his hands. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> There is no speech and there are no words, yet their voice is heard. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their language to the extremity of the world. In them hath he set a tent for the sun, <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he is as a bridegroom going forth from his chamber; he rejoiceth as a strong man to run the race. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His going forth is from the end of the heavens, and his circuit unto the ends of it; and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The law of Jehovah is perfect, restoring the soul; the testimony of Jehovah is sure, making wise the simple; <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The precepts of Jehovah are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of Jehovah is pure, enlightening the eyes; <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The fear of Jehovah is clean, enduring for ever; the judgments of Jehovah are truth, they are righteous altogether: <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They are more precious than gold, yea, than much fine gold; and sweeter than honey and the dropping of the honeycomb. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Moreover, by them is thy servant enlightened; in keeping them there is great reward. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who understandeth his errors? Purify me from secret faults. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be perfect, and I shall be innocent from great transgression. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Jehovah, my rock, and my redeemer.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>