<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? Jehovah is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When evil-doers, mine adversaries and mine enemies, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If a host encamp against me, my heart shall not fear; if war rise against me, in this will I be confident. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One thing have I asked of Jehovah, that will I seek after: that I may dwell in the house of Jehovah all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of Jehovah, and to inquire of him in his temple. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For in the day of evil he will hide me in his pavilion; in the secret of his tent will he keep me concealed: he will set me high upon a rock. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now shall my head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me; and I will offer in his tent sacrifices of shouts of joy: I will sing, yea, I will sing psalms unto Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hear, Jehovah; with my voice do I call; be gracious unto me, and answer me. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> My heart said for thee, Seek ye my face. Thy face, O Jehovah, will I seek. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Hide not thy face from me; put not thy servant away in anger: thou hast been my help; cast me not off, neither forsake me, O God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of my salvation. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For had my father and my mother forsaken me, then had Jehovah taken me up. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Teach me thy way, Jehovah, and lead me in an even path, because of mine enemies. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Deliver me not over to the will of mine adversaries; for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out violence. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Unless I had believed to see the goodness of Jehovah in the land of the living...! <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wait for Jehovah; be strong and let thy heart take courage: yea, wait for Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>