<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear this, all ye peoples; give ear, all inhabitants of the world: <a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Both men of low and men of high degree, rich and poor alike. <a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My mouth shall speak wisdom, and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding: <a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I will incline mine ear to a parable, I will open my riddle upon the harp. <a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wherefore should I fear in the days of adversity, when the iniquity of my supplanters encompasseth me? --</p>

<p><a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They depend upon their wealth, and boast themselves in the abundance of their riches. ... <a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> None can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> a ransom for him, <a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> (For the redemption of their soul is costly, and must be given up for ever,) <a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That he should still live perpetually, and not see corruption. <a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he seeth that wise men die; all alike, the fool and the brutish perish, and they leave their wealth to others. <a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Their inward thought is, that their houses are for ever, their dwelling-places from generation to generation: they call the lands after their own names. <a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Nevertheless, man being in honour abideth not: he is like the beasts that perish. <a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This their way is their folly, yet they that come after them delight in their sayings. Selah. <a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Like sheep are they laid in Sheol: Death feedeth on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their comeliness shall be for Sheol to consume, that there be no habitation for them.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol: for he will receive me. Selah. <a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Be not afraid when a man becometh rich, when the glory of his house is increased: <a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For when he dieth, he shall carry nothing away; his glory shall not descend after him. <a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Though he blessed his soul in his lifetime, --and men will praise thee when thou doest well to thyself, -- <a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It shall go to the generation of his fathers: they shall never see light. <a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Man that is in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts that perish.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>