<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth with a muzzle, while the wicked is before me. <a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I was dumb with silence, I held my peace from good; and my sorrow was stirred. <a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My heart burned within me; the fire was kindled in my musing: I spoke with my tongue, <a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Make me to know, Jehovah, mine end, and the measure of my days, what it is: I shall know how frail I am. <a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, thou hast made my days as hand-breadths, and my lifetime is as nothing before thee; verily, every man, even the high placed, is altogether vanity. Selah. <a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Verily, man walketh in a vain show; verily they are disquieted in vain; he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall gather them.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And now, what wait I for, Lord? my hope is in thee. <a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Deliver me from all my transgressions; make me not the reproach of the foolish. <a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; for thou hast done it. <a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of thy hand. <a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When thou with rebukes dost correct a man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely, every man is vanity. Selah. <a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hear my prayer, Jehovah, and give ear unto my cry; be not silent at my tears: for I am a stranger with thee, a sojourner, like all my fathers. <a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Look away from me, and let me recover strength, before I go hence and be no more.</p>

</body>
</html>