<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 106</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 106</h2>

<p><a id="c106_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hallelujah! Give ye thanks unto Jehovah; for he is good; for his loving-kindness endureth for ever. <a id="c106_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who can utter the mighty acts of Jehovah? who can shew forth all his praise? <a id="c106_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed are they that keep justice, and he that doeth righteousness at all times. <a id="c106_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Remember me, O Jehovah, with thy favour toward thy people; visit me with thy salvation: <a id="c106_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> That I may see the prosperity of thy chosen ones, that I may rejoice in the joy of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly. <a id="c106_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Our fathers in Egypt considered not thy wondrous works; they remembered not the multitude of thy loving-kindnesses; but they rebelled at the sea, at the Red Sea. <a id="c106_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yet he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make known his might. <a id="c106_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he rebuked the Red Sea, and it dried up; and he led them through the deeps as through a wilderness. <a id="c106_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. <a id="c106_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the waters covered their oppressors: there was not one of them left. <a id="c106_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They soon forgot his works; they waited not for his counsel: <a id="c106_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> in the desert. <a id="c106_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then he gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul. <a id="c106_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they envied Moses in the camp, and Aaron, the saint of Jehovah. <a id="c106_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram; <a id="c106_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And fire was kindled in their company; a flame burned up the wicked. <a id="c106_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They made a calf in Horeb, and did homage to a molten image; <a id="c106_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass. <a id="c106_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They forgot ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> their Saviour, who had done great things in Egypt, <a id="c106_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wondrous works in the land of Ham, terrible things by the Red Sea. <a id="c106_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses, his chosen, stood before him in the breach, to turn away his fury, lest he should destroy them. <a id="c106_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they despised the pleasant land; they believed not his word, <a id="c106_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But murmured in their tents: they hearkened not unto the voice of Jehovah. <a id="c106_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he lifted up his hand to them, that he would make them fall in the wilderness; <a id="c106_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And that he would make their seed fall among the nations, and disperse them through the countries. <a id="c106_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they joined themselves unto Baal-Peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead; <a id="c106_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they provoked him to anger with their doings; and a plague broke out among them. <a id="c106_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then stood up Phinehas and executed judgment, and the plague was stayed; <a id="c106_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And that was reckoned unto him for righteousness, from generation to generation, for evermore. <a id="c106_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they moved him to wrath at the waters of Meribah, and it went ill with Moses on their account; <a id="c106_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For they provoked his spirit, so that he spoke unadvisedly with his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c106_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They did not destroy the peoples, as Jehovah commanded them; <a id="c106_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But they mingled with the nations, and learned their works; <a id="c106_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And they served their idols; and they were a snare unto them: <a id="c106_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto demons, <a id="c106_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan; and the land was polluted with blood. <a id="c106_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they were defiled with their works, and went a-whoring in their doings. <a id="c106_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Then was the anger of Jehovah kindled against his people, and he abhorred his inheritance; <a id="c106_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he gave them into the hand of the nations; and they that hated them ruled over them: <a id="c106_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand. <a id="c106_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Often did he deliver them; but as for them they provoked him by their counsel, and they were brought low by their iniquity. <a id="c106_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> But he regarded their distress, when he heard their cry; <a id="c106_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his loving-kindnesses; <a id="c106_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And he caused them to find compassion of all those that had carried them captives. <a id="c106_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Save us, Jehovah our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and gather us from among the nations, to give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise. <a id="c106_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Blessed be Jehovah the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> of Israel, from eternity and to eternity! And let all the people say, Amen! Hallelujah!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>