<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 85</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 85</h2>

<p><a id="c85_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thou hast been favourable, Jehovah, unto thy land; thou hast turned the captivity of Jacob: <a id="c85_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people; thou hast covered all their sin. Selah. <a id="c85_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou hast withdrawn all thy wrath; thou hast turned from the fierceness of thine anger. <a id="c85_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Bring us back, O God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of our salvation, and cause thine indignation toward us to cease. <a id="c85_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine anger from generation to generation? <a id="c85_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wilt thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice in thee? <a id="c85_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Shew us thy loving-kindness, O Jehovah, and grant us thy salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c85_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will hear what ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> Jehovah, will speak; for he will speak peace unto his people, and to his godly ones: but let them not turn again to folly. <a id="c85_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land. <a id="c85_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Loving-kindness and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other: <a id="c85_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Truth shall spring out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down from the heavens. <a id="c85_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jehovah also will give what is good, and our land shall yield its increase. <a id="c85_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Righteousness shall go before him, and shall set his footsteps on the way.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>