<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 135</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 135</h2>

<p><a id="c135_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hallelujah! Praise the name of Jehovah; praise, ye servants of Jehovah, <a id="c135_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye that stand in the house of Jehovah, in the courts of the house of our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c135_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Praise ye Jah; for Jehovah is good: sing psalms unto his name; for it is pleasant. <a id="c135_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Jah hath chosen Jacob unto himself, Israel for his own possession.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I know that Jehovah is great, and our Lord is above all gods. <a id="c135_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Whatsoever Jehovah pleased, he hath done in the heavens and on the earth, in the seas and all deeps; <a id="c135_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; who maketh lightnings for the rain; who bringeth the wind out of his treasuries: <a id="c135_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast; <a id="c135_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who sent signs and miracles into the midst of thee, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh and upon all his servants; <a id="c135_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings, <a id="c135_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan; <a id="c135_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And gave their land for an inheritance, an inheritance unto Israel his people. <a id="c135_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy name, O Jehovah, is for ever; thy memorial, O Jehovah, from generation to generation. <a id="c135_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For Jehovah will judge his people, and will repent in favour of his servants.</p>

<p><a id="c135_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of men's hands: <a id="c135_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They have a mouth, and they speak not; eyes have they, and they see not; <a id="c135_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They have ears, and they hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouth. <a id="c135_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They that make them are like unto them, --every one that confideth in them. <a id="c135_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> House of Israel, bless ye Jehovah; house of Aaron, bless ye Jehovah; <a id="c135_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> House of Levi, bless ye Jehovah; ye that fear Jehovah, bless Jehovah. <a id="c135_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Blessed be Jehovah out of Zion, who dwelleth at Jerusalem! Hallelujah!</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>