<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In thee, Jehovah, do I trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness. <a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Incline thine ear to me, deliver me speedily; be a strong rock to me, a house of defence to save me. <a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou art my rock and my fortress; and, for thy name's sake, thou wilt lead me and guide me. <a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Draw me out of the net that they have hidden for me; for thou art my strength. <a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Into thy hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, Jehovah, thou ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of truth. <a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have hated them that observe lying vanities; and as for me, I have confided in Jehovah. <a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I will be glad and rejoice in thy loving-kindness, for thou hast seen mine affliction; thou hast known the troubles of my soul, <a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a large place.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be gracious unto me, Jehovah, for I am in trouble: mine eye wasteth away with vexation, my soul and my belly. <a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing; my strength faileth through mine iniquity, and my bones are wasted. <a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> More than to all mine oppressors, I am become exceedingly a reproach, even to my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that see me without flee from me. <a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I am forgotten in their heart as a dead man; I am become like a broken vessel. <a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I have heard the slander of many--terror on every side--when they take counsel together against me: they plot to take away my life. <a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I confided in thee, Jehovah; I said, thou art my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from my persecutors. <a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; save me in thy loving-kindness. <a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jehovah, let me not be ashamed; for I have called upon thee: let the wicked be ashamed, let them be silent in Sheol. <a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let the lying lips become dumb, which speak insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee, before the sons of men! <a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou keepest them concealed in the secret of thy presence from the conspiracies of man; thou hidest them in a pavilion from the strife of tongues. <a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Blessed be Jehovah; for he hath shewn me wondrously his loving-kindness in a strong city. <a id="c31_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> As for me, I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes; nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee. <a id="c31_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Love Jehovah, all ye his saints. Jehovah preserveth the faithful, and plentifully requiteth the proud doer. <a id="c31_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all ye that hope in Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>