<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 72</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 72</h2>

<p><a id="c72_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> give the king thy judgments, and thy righteousness unto the king's son.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He will judge thy people with righteousness, and thine afflicted with judgment. <a id="c72_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the hills, by righteousness. <a id="c72_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He will do justice to the afflicted of the people; he will save the children of the needy, and will break in pieces the oppressor. <a id="c72_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They shall fear thee as long as sun and moon endure, from generation to generation. <a id="c72_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He shall come down like rain on the mown grass, as showers that water the earth. <a id="c72_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In his days shall the righteous flourish, and abundance of peace till the moon be no more. <a id="c72_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he shall have dominion from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth. <a id="c72_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The dwellers in the desert shall bow before him, and his enemies shall lick the dust. <a id="c72_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall render presents; the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer tribute: <a id="c72_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yea, all kings shall bow down before him; all nations shall serve him. <a id="c72_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For he will deliver the needy who crieth, and the afflicted, who hath no helper; <a id="c72_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He will have compassion on the poor and needy, and will save the souls of the needy: <a id="c72_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He will redeem their souls from oppression and violence, and precious shall their blood be in his sight. <a id="c72_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he shall live; and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba; and prayer shall be made for him continually: all the day shall he be blessed. <a id="c72_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There shall be abundance of corn in the earth, upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon; and they of the city shall bloom like the herb of the earth. <a id="c72_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His name shall endure for ever; his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and men shall bless themselves in him; all nations shall call him blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c72_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Blessed be Jehovah Elohim, the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of Israel, who alone doeth wondrous things! <a id="c72_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And blessed be his glorious name for ever! and let the whole earth be filled with his glory! Amen, and Amen. <a id="c72_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>