<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> my ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou far from my salvation, from the words of my groaning? <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> I cry by day, and thou answerest not; and by night, and there is no rest for me: <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou art holy, thou that dwellest amid the praises of Israel. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Our fathers confided in thee: they confided, and thou didst deliver them. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They cried unto thee, and were delivered; they confided in thee, and were not confounded. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and the despised of the people. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All they that see me laugh me to scorn; they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying: <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Commit it to Jehovah--let him rescue him; let him deliver him, because he delighteth in him! <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But thou art he that took me out of the womb; thou didst make me trust, upon my mother's breasts. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I was cast upon thee from the womb; thou art my ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> from my mother's belly.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be not far from me, for trouble is near; for there is none to help. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Many bulls have encompassed me; Bashan's strong ones have beset me round. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They gape upon me with their mouth, as a ravening and a roaring lion. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is become like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue cleaveth to my palate; and thou hast laid me in the dust of death. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For dogs have encompassed me; an assembly of evil-doers have surrounded me: they pierced my hands and my feet. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I may count all my bones. They look, they stare upon me; <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But thou, Jehovah, be not far from me; O my strength, haste thee to help me. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Deliver my soul from the sword; my only one from the power of the dog; <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Save me from the lion's mouth. Yea, from the horns of the buffaloes hast thou answered me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ye that fear Jehovah, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and revere him, all ye the seed of Israel. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him: but when he cried unto him, he heard. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> My praise is from thee, in the great congregation; I will pay my vows before them that fear him. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The meek shall eat and be satisfied; they shall praise Jehovah that seek him: your heart shall live for ever. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn unto Jehovah, and all the families of the nations shall worship before thee: <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For the kingdom is Jehovah's, and he ruleth among the nations. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> All the fat ones of the earth shall eat and worship; all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him, and he that cannot keep alive his own soul. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done it.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>