<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Psalms 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Psalms 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Exult, ye righteous, in Jehovah: praise is comely for the upright. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Give thanks unto Jehovah with the harp; sing psalms unto him with the ten-stringed lute. <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud sound. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the word of Jehovah is right, and all his work is in faithfulness. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the loving-kindness of Jehovah. <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> By the word of Jehovah were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He gathereth the waters of the sea together as a heap; he layeth up the deeps in storehouses. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Let all the earth fear Jehovah; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For he spoke, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast. <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jehovah frustrateth the counsel of the nations; he maketh the thoughts of the peoples of none effect. <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The counsel of Jehovah standeth for ever, the thoughts of his heart from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the nation whose God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is Jehovah, the people that he hath chosen for his inheritance! <a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jehovah looketh from the heavens; he beholdeth all the sons of men: <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> From the place of his habitation he looketh forth upon all the inhabitants of the earth; <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He who fashioneth the hearts of them all, who considereth all their works. <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The king is not saved by the multitude of his forces; a mighty man is not delivered by much strength. <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The horse is a vain thing for safety; neither doth he deliver by his great power. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, the eye of Jehovah is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his loving-kindness, <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine. <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Our soul waiteth for Jehovah: he is our help and our shield. <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For in him shall our heart rejoice, because we have confided in his holy name. <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let thy loving-kindness, O Jehovah, be upon us, according as we have hoped in thee.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>