<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wisdom hath built her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars; <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> she hath slaughtered her cattle, she hath mingled her wine, she hath also prepared her table; <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> she hath sent forth her maidens: she crieth upon the summits of the high places of the city, <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither. To him that is void of understanding, she saith, <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Come, eat ye of my bread, and drink of the wine that I have mingled. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Forsake follies and live, and go in the way of intelligence. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He that instructeth a scorner getteth to himself shame; and he that reproveth a wicked man getteth to himself a blot. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee; reprove a wise man, and he will love thee. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Impart to a wise man, and he will become yet wiser; teach a righteous man, and he will increase learning. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The fear of Jehovah is the beginning of wisdom; and the knowledge of the Holy is intelligence. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and years of life shall be added to thee. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thou art wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself; and if thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The foolish woman is clamorous; she is stupid, and knoweth nothing. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And she sitteth at the entry of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city, <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> to call passers-by who go right on their ways: <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither. And to him that is void of understanding she saith, <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Stolen waters are sweet, and the bread of secrecy is pleasant. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But he knoweth not that the dead are there; that her guests are in the depths of Sheol.</p>

</body>
</html>