<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He that separateth himself seeketh his pleasure, he is vehement against all sound wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A fool hath no delight in understanding, but only that his heart may reveal itself.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When the wicked cometh, there cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The words of a man's mouth are deep waters, and the fountain of wisdom is a gushing brook.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to wrong the righteous in judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for stripes. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A fool's mouth is destruction to him, and his lips are a snare to his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The words of a talebearer are as dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He also who is indolent in his work is brother of the destroyer.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The name of Jehovah is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as a high wall in his own imagination.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Before destruction the heart of man is haughty; and before honour goeth humility.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He that giveth answer before he heareth, it is folly and shame unto him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The spirit of a man sustaineth his infirmity; but a broken spirit who can bear?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The heart of an intelligent man getteth knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city; and contentions are as the bars of a palace.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A man's belly is satisfied with the fruit of his mouth; with the increase of his lips is he satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Whoso hath found a wife hath found a good thing, and hath obtained favour from Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He that is poor speaketh with supplications, but the rich answereth roughly.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A man of many friends will come to ruin but there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.</p>

</body>
</html>