<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel: <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to know wisdom and instruction; to discern the words of understanding; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> to receive the instruction of wisdom, righteousness and judgment, and equity; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to give prudence to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He that is wise will hear, and will increase learning; and the intelligent will gain wise counsels: <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> to understand a proverb and an allegory, the words of the wise and their enigmas.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The fear of Jehovah is the beginning of knowledge: fools despise wisdom and instruction. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hear, my son, the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the teaching of thy mother; <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for they shall be a garland of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My son, if sinners entice thee, consent not. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk secretly for the innocent without cause; <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> let us swallow them up alive as Sheol, and whole, as those that go down into the pit; <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> we shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil: <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> cast in thy lot among us; we will all have one purse: <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> --my son, walk not in the way with them, keep back thy foot from their path; <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For in vain the net is spread in the sight of anything which hath wings. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And these lay wait for their own blood; they lurk secretly for their own lives. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So are the paths of every one that is greedy of gain: it taketh away the life of its possessors.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wisdom crieth without; she raiseth her voice in the broadways; <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> she calleth in the chief place of concourse, in the entry of the gates; in the city she uttereth her words: <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> How long, simple ones, will ye love simpleness, and scorners take pleasure in their scorning, and the foolish hate knowledge? <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Turn you at my reproof: behold, I will pour forth my spirit unto you, I will make known to you my words. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no one regarded; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and ye have rejected all my counsel, and would none of my reproof: <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I also will laugh in your calamity, I will mock when your fear cometh; <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> when your fear cometh as sudden destruction, and your calamity cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish come upon you: <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> --then will they call upon me, but I will not answer; they will seek me early, and shall not find me. <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Because they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of Jehovah; <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> they would none of my counsel, they despised all my reproof: <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their way, and be filled with their own devices. <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of the foolish shall cause them to perish. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be at rest from fear of evil.</p>

</body>
</html>