<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The wicked flee when no man pursueth; but the righteous are bold as a lion.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> By the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof; but by a man of understanding and of knowledge, its stability is prolonged.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A poor man who oppresseth the helpless is a sweeping rain which leaveth no food.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They that forsake the law praise the wicked; but such as keep the law contend with them.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Evil men understand not judgment; but they that seek Jehovah understand everything.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse, double in ways, though he be rich.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whoso observeth the law is a son that hath understanding; but he that is a companion of profligates bringeth shame to his father.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance gathereth it for him that is gracious to the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Whoso causeth the upright to go astray in an evil way, shall himself fall into his own pit; but the perfect shall inherit good.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A rich man is wise in his own eyes; but the poor that hath understanding searcheth him out.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When the righteous triumph, there is great glory; but when the wicked rise, men conceal themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He that covereth his transgressions shall not prosper; but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall obtain mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Happy is the man that feareth always; but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into evil.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A roaring lion, and a ranging bear, is a wicked ruler over a poor people.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The prince void of intelligence is also a great oppressor: he that hateth covetousness shall prolong his days.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A man laden with the blood of any person, fleeth to the pit: let no man stay him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoso walketh in integrity shall be saved; but he that is perverted in his double ways, shall fall in one of them.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread; but he that followeth the worthless shall have poverty enough.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A faithful man aboundeth with blessings; but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> To have respect of persons is not good; but for a piece of bread will a man transgress.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He that hath an evil eye hasteth after wealth, and knoweth not that poverty shall come upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He that rebuketh a man shall afterwards find more favour than he that flattereth with the tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoso robbeth his father and his mother, and saith, It is no transgression, the same is the companion of a destroyer.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He that is puffed up in soul exciteth contention; but he that relieth upon Jehovah shall be made fat.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He that confideth in his own heart is a fool; but whoso walketh wisely, he shall be delivered.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack; but he that withdraweth his eyes shall have many a curse.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> When the wicked rise, men hide themselves; but when they perish, the righteous increase.</p>

</body>
</html>