<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and without remedy.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When the righteous increase, the people rejoice; but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father; but he that is a companion of harlots destroyeth his substance.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A king by just judgment establisheth the land; but he that taketh gifts overthroweth it.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his steps.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare; but the righteous shall sing and rejoice.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The righteous taketh knowledge of the cause of the poor; the wicked understandeth not knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Scornful men set the city in a flame; but the wise turn away anger.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If a wise man contendeth with a fool, whether he rage or laugh, he hath no rest.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The bloodthirsty hate the perfect, but the upright care for his soul.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> A fool uttereth all his mind; but a wise man keepeth it back.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If a ruler hearken to lying words, all his servants are wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The indigent and the oppressor meet together; Jehovah lighteneth the eyes of them both.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The rod and reproof give wisdom; but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> When the wicked increase, transgression increaseth; but the righteous shall see their fall.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Chasten thy son, and he shall give thee rest, and shall give delight unto thy soul.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Where there is no vision the people cast off restraint; but happy is he that keepeth the law.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A servant is not corrected by words: he understandeth indeed, but he will not answer.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Hast thou seen a man hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child, shall in the end have him as a son.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> An angry man exciteth contention; and a furious man aboundeth in transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A man's pride bringeth him low; but the humble in spirit shall obtain honour.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoso shareth with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth the adjuration, and declareth not.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The fear of man bringeth a snare; but whoso putteth his confidence in Jehovah is protected.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Many seek the ruler's face; but a man's right judgment is from Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous; and he that is of upright way is an abomination to the wicked man.</p>

</body>
</html>