<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding give forth her voice? <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> On the top of high places by the way, at the cross-paths she taketh her stand. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Beside the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in at the doors, she crieth aloud. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Unto you, men, I call, and my voice is to the sons of man: <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> O ye simple, understand prudence; and ye foolish, understand sense. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Hear, for I will speak excellent things, and the opening of my lips shall be right things. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For my palate shall meditate truth, and wickedness is an abomination to my lips. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing tortuous or perverse in them. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold: <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for wisdom is better than rubies, and all the things that may be desired are not equal to it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find the knowledge which cometh of reflection. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fear of Jehovah is to hate evil; pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth do I hate. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am intelligence; I have strength. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By me kings reign, and rulers make just decrees; <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> by me princes rule, and nobles, all the judges of the earth. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I love those that love me; and they that seek me early shall find me. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Riches and honour are with me; durable wealth and righteousness. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> My fruit is better than fine gold, yea, than pure gold; and my revenue than choice silver. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I walk in the path of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment: <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that I may cause those that love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasuries.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Jehovah possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I was set up from eternity, from the beginning, before the earth was. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When there were no depths, I was brought forth, when there were no fountains abounding with water. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth; <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> while as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the beginning of the dust of the world. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> When he prepared the heavens I was there; when he ordained the circle upon the face of the deep; <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> when he established the skies above, when the fountains of the deep became strong; <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> when he imposed on the sea his decree that the waters should not pass his commandment, when he appointed the foundations of the earth: <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> then I was by him his nursling, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him; <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth, and my delights were with the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And now, sons, hearken unto me, and blessed are they that keep my ways: <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> hear instruction and be wise, and refuse it not. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whoso findeth me findeth life, and obtaineth favour of Jehovah; <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> but he that sinneth against me doeth violence to his own soul: all they that hate me love death.</p>

</body>
</html>