<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Keep my commandments, and live; and my teaching, as the apple of thine eye. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the tablet of thy heart. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister, and call intelligence thy kinswoman: <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that they may keep thee from the strange woman, from the stranger who flattereth with her words.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For at the window of my house, I looked forth through my lattice, <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and I beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the sons, a young man void of understanding, <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> passing through the street near her corner; and he went the way to her house, <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> in the twilight, in the evening of the day, in the blackness of night and the darkness. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And behold, there met him a woman in the attire of a harlot, and subtle of heart. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> She is clamorous and unmanageable; her feet abide not in her house: <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> now without, now in the broadways, --and she lieth in wait at every corner. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And she caught him and kissed him, and with an impudent face said unto him, <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have peace-offerings with me; this day have I paid my vows: <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> therefore came I forth to meet thee, to seek earnestly thy face, and I have found thee. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have decked my bed with tapestry coverlets of variegated linen from Egypt; <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I have perfumed my couch with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Come, let us revel in love until the morning, let us delight ourselves with loves. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the husband is not at home, he is gone a long journey; <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> he hath taken the money-bag with him, he will come home on the day of the full moon. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> With her much enticement she beguiled him; with the smoothness of her lips she constrained him. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He went after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the slaughter, and as stocks serve for the correction of the fool; <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> till an arrow strike through his liver: as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not that it is for its life.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And now, ye sons, hearken unto me, and attend to the words of my mouth. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let not thy heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her paths: <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for she hath cast down many wounded, and all slain by her were strong. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the chambers of death.</p>

</body>
</html>