<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father; but a foolish son is the grief of his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Treasures of wickedness profit nothing; but righteousness delivereth from death. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah suffereth not the soul of the righteous man to famish; but he repelleth the craving of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He cometh to want that dealeth with a slack hand; but the hand of the diligent maketh rich.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He that gathereth in summer is a wise son; he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Blessings are upon the head of a righteous man; but the mouth of the wicked covereth violence.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The memory of the righteous man shall be blessed; but the name of the wicked shall rot.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The wise in heart receiveth commandments; but a prating fool shall fall.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He that walketh in integrity walketh securely; but he that perverteth his ways shall be known.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He that winketh with the eye causeth grief, and a prating fool shall fall.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The mouth of a righteous man is a fountain of life; but the mouth of the wicked covereth violence.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hatred stirreth up strifes; but love covereth all transgressions.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In the lips of an intelligent man wisdom is found; but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The wise lay up knowledge; but the mouth of the fool is near destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The rich man's wealth is his strong city; the destruction of the poor is their poverty.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The labour of a righteous man tendeth to life; the revenue of a wicked man, to sin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Keeping instruction is the path to life; but he that forsaketh reproof goeth astray.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He that covereth hatred hath lying lips, and he that sendeth forth a slander is a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the multitude of words there wanteth not transgression; but he that restraineth his lips doeth wisely.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The tongue of the righteous man is as choice silver; the heart of the wicked is little worth. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The lips of a righteous man feed many; but fools die for want of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The blessing of Jehovah, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow to it.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> It is as sport to a foolish man to do wickedness; but a man of understanding hath wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The fear of a wicked man, it shall come upon him; but the desire of the righteous shall be granted. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As a whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no more; but the righteous is an everlasting foundation.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The fear of Jehovah prolongeth days; but the years of the wicked shall be shortened. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The hope of the righteous is joy; but the expectation of the wicked shall perish.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The way of Jehovah is strength to the perfect man, but destruction to the workers of iniquity. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The righteous man shall never be moved; but the wicked shall not inhabit the land.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The mouth of a righteous man putteth forth wisdom; but the froward tongue shall be cut out. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The lips of a righteous man know what is acceptable; but the mouth of the wicked is frowardness.</p>

</body>
</html>