<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A soft answer turneth away fury; but a grievous word stirreth up anger.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright; but the mouth of the foolish poureth out folly.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The eyes of Jehovah are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Gentleness of tongue is a tree of life; but crookedness therein is a breaking of the spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A fool despiseth his father's instruction; but he that regardeth reproof becometh prudent.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the house of a righteous man is much treasure; but in the revenue of a wicked man is disturbance.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The lips of the wise disperse knowledge, but not so the heart of the foolish.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to Jehovah; but the prayer of the upright is his delight.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The way of a wicked man is an abomination to Jehovah; but him that pursueth righteousness he loveth.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Grievous correction is for him that forsaketh the path; he that hateth reproof shall die.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Sheol and destruction are before Jehovah; how much more then the hearts of the children of men!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him; he will not go unto the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A joyful heart maketh a cheerful countenance; but by sorrow of heart the spirit is broken.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The heart of an intelligent man seeketh knowledge; but the mouth of the foolish feedeth on folly.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All the days of the afflicted are evil; but a cheerful heart is a continual feast.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Better is little with the fear of Jehovah than great store and disquietude therewith. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Better is a meal of herbs where love is, than a fatted ox and hatred therewith.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A furious man stirreth up contention; but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the sluggard is as a hedge of thorns; but the path of the upright is made plain.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> A wise son maketh a glad father; but a foolish man despiseth his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Folly is joy to him that is void of sense; but a man of understanding regulateth his walk.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Without counsel purposes are disappointed; but in the multitude of counsellors they are established.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth; and a word in its season, how good is it!</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The path of life is upwards for the wise, that he may depart from Sheol beneath.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jehovah plucketh up the house of the proud; but he establisheth the boundary of the widow.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The thoughts of the evil man are an abomination to Jehovah; but pure words are pleasant.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The heart of a righteous man studieth to answer; but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jehovah is far from the wicked; but he heareth the prayer of the righteous.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> That which enlighteneth the eyes rejoiceth the heart; good tidings make the bones fat.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The ear that heareth the reproof of life shall abide among the wise.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul; but he that heareth reproof getteth sense.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The fear of Jehovah is the discipline of wisdom, and before honour goeth humility.</p>

</body>
</html>