<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wine is a scorner, strong drink is raging; and whoso erreth thereby is not wise.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The terror of a king is as the roaring of a lion: he that provoketh him to anger sinneth against his own soul.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> It is an honour for a man to cease from strife; but every fool rusheth into it.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The sluggard will not plough by reason of the winter; he shall beg in harvest, and have nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Counsel in the heart of man is deep water, and a man of understanding draweth it out.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Most men will proclaim every one his own kindness; but a faithful man who shall find?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The righteous walketh in his integrity: blessed are his children after him!</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A king sitting on the throne of judgment scattereth away all evil with his eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Divers weights, divers measures, even both of them are abomination to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and whether it be right.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, Jehovah hath made even both of them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and thou shalt be satisfied with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Bad! bad! saith the buyer; but when he is gone his way, then he boasteth.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There is gold, and a multitude of rubies; but the lips of knowledge are a precious Jewel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Take his garment that is become surety for another, and hold him in pledge for strangers.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Bread of falsehood is sweet to a man, but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Plans are established by counsel; and with good advice make war.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He that goeth about talebearing revealeth secrets; therefore meddle not with him that openeth his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in the blackest darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> An inheritance obtained hastily at the beginning will not be blessed in the end.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Say not, I will recompense evil: wait on Jehovah, and he shall save thee.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Divers weights are an abomination unto Jehovah; and a false balance is not good.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The steps of a man are from Jehovah; and how can a man understand his own way?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It is a snare to a man rashly to say, It is hallowed, and after vows to make inquiry.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Man's spirit is the lamp of Jehovah, searching all the inner parts of the belly.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Mercy and truth preserve the king; and he upholdeth his throne by mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The glory of young men is their strength; and the beauty of old men is the grey head.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Wounding stripes purge away evil, and strokes purge the inner parts of the belly.</p>

</body>
</html>