<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The wisdom of women buildeth their house; but folly plucketh it down with her hands.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He that walketh in his uprightness feareth Jehovah; but he that is perverted in his ways despiseth him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In the fool's mouth is a rod of pride; but the lips of the wise shall preserve them.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Where no oxen are, the crib is clean; but much increase is by the strength of the ox.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A faithful witness will not lie; but a false witness uttereth lies.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A scorner seeketh wisdom, and there is none for him; but knowledge is easy unto the intelligent.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Go from the presence of a foolish man, in whom thou perceivest not the lips of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The wisdom of the prudent is to discern his way; but the folly of the foolish is deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Fools make a mock at trespass; but for the upright there is favour.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The heart knoweth its own bitterness, and a stranger doth not intermeddle with its joy.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The house of the wicked shall be overthrown; but the tent of the upright shall flourish.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof is the ways of death.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful, and the end of mirth is sadness.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways, and the good man from what is in himself.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The simple believeth every word; but the prudent man heedeth his going.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A wise man feareth and departeth from evil; but the foolish is overbearing and confident.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly, and a man of mischievous devices is hated.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The simple inherit folly; but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The evil bow before the good, and the wicked at the gates of the righteous man.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He that is poor is hated even of his own neighbour; but the rich hath many friends.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth; but he that is gracious to the afflicted, happy is he.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Do they not err that devise evil? but loving-kindness and truth are for those that devise good.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In all labour there is profit; but the talk of the lips tendeth only to want.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The crown of the wise is their riches; the folly of the foolish is folly.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A true witness delivereth souls; but deceit uttereth lies.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In the fear of Jehovah is strong confidence, and his children shall have a place of refuge. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The fear of Jehovah is a fountain of life, to turn away from the snares of death.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the multitude of people is the king's glory; but in the lack of people is the ruin of a prince.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He that is slow to anger is of great understanding; but he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> A sound heart is the life of the flesh; but envy the rottenness of the bones.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker; but he that honoureth Him is gracious to the needy.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The wicked is driven away by his evil-doing; but the righteous trusteth, even in his death.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Wisdom resteth in the heart of the intelligent man; but that which is in the foolish maketh itself known.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Righteousness exalteth a nation; but sin is a reproach to peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The king's favour is toward a wise servant; but his wrath is against him that causeth shame.</p>

</body>
</html>