<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The king's heart in the hand of Jehovah is as brooks of water: he turneth it whithersoever he will.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Every way of a man is right in his own eyes; but Jehovah weigheth the hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To exercise justice and judgment is more acceptable to Jehovah than sacrifice.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Lofty eyes, and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, is sin.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness; but of every one that is hasty, only to want.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a fleeting breath of them that seek death.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The devastation of the wicked sweepeth them away, because they refuse to do what is right.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Very crooked is the way of a guilty man; but as for the pure, his work is upright.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a contentious woman, and a house in common.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The soul of the wicked desireth evil: his neighbour findeth no favour in his eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When the scorner is punished, the simple becometh wise; and when the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> One that is righteous wisely considereth the house of the wicked: he overthroweth the wicked to their ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also himself shall cry, and shall not be heard.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A gift in secret pacifieth anger; and a present in the bosom, vehement fury.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It is joy to a righteous man to do what is right; but it is ruin for the workers of iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The man that wandereth out of the way of wisdom shall abide in the congregation of the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He that loveth mirth shall be a poor man; he that loveth wine and oil shall not be rich.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The wicked is a ransom for the righteous, and a treacherous man in the stead of the upright.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is better to dwell in a desert land. than with a contentious and irritable woman.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> There is costly store and oil in the dwelling of a wise man; but a foolish man swalloweth it up.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life, righteousness, and honour.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and casteth down the strength of the confidence thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Proud, arrogant, scorner is his name who dealeth in proud wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The desire of the sluggard killeth him; for his hands refuse to work: <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He coveteth greedily all the day long; but the righteous giveth and spareth not.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination: how much more when they bring it with a wicked purpose!</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A lying witness shall perish; and a man that heareth shall speak constantly.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> A wicked man hardeneth his face; but as for the upright, he establisheth his way.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> There is no wisdom, nor understanding, nor counsel against Jehovah. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The horse is prepared for the day of battle; but safety is of Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>