<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, if thou hast become surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken thy hand for a stranger, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> thou art snared with the words of thy mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, since thou hast come into the hand of thy friend: go, humble thyself, and be urgent with thy friend. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids: <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> deliver thyself as a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways and be wise: <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> which having no chief, overseer, or ruler, <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> provideth her bread in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> How long, sluggard, wilt thou lie down? When wilt thou arise out of thy sleep? <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest! <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> So shall thy poverty come as a roving plunderer, and thy penury as an armed man.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A man of Belial, a wicked person, is he that goeth about with a perverse mouth; <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> he winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth with his fingers; <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> deceits are in his heart; he deviseth mischief at all times, he soweth discords. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly: in a moment shall he be broken, and without remedy. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These six things doth Jehovah hate, yea, seven are an abomination unto him: <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood; <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> a heart that deviseth wicked imaginations; feet that are swift in running to mischief; <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> a false witness that uttereth lies, and he that soweth discords among brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, observe thy father's commandment, and forsake not the teaching of thy mother; <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> bind them continually upon thy heart, tie them about thy neck: <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> when thou walkest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For the commandment is a lamp, and the teaching a light, and reproofs of instruction are the way of life: <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> to keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman. <a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Lust not after her beauty in thy heart, neither let her take thee with her eyelids; <a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a loaf of bread, and another's wife doth hunt for the precious soul. <a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his garments not be burned? <a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be scorched? <a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> So he that goeth in to his neighbour's wife: whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent. <a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry: <a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the substance of his house. <a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Whoso committeth adultery with a woman is void of understanding: he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul. <a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> A wound and contempt shall he get; and his reproach shall not be wiped away. <a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For jealousy is the rage of a man, and he will not spare in the day of vengeance; <a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> he will not regard any ransom, neither will he rest content though thou multipliest thy gifts.</p>

</body>
</html>