<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of Agur the son of Jakeh; the prophecy uttered by the man unto Ithiel, even unto Ithiel and Ucal: <a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Truly I am more stupid than any one; and I have not a man's intelligence. <a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I have neither learned wisdom, nor have I the knowledge of the Holy. <a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who hath ascended up into the heavens, and descended? Who hath gathered the wind in his fists? Who hath bound the waters in a mantle? Who hath established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his son's name, if thou knowest? <a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Every word of +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is pure: he is a shield unto them that put their trust in him. <a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Two things do I ask of thee; deny me them not before I die: <a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remove far from me vanity and lies; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the bread of my daily need: <a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> lest I be full and deny thee, and say, Who is Jehovah? or lest I be poor and steal, and outrage the name of my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Speak not too much about a servant to his master, lest he curse thee, and thou be held guilty. <a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is a generation that curseth their father, and doth not bless their mother; <a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> there is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, yet are not washed from their filthiness; <a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> there is a generation, --how lofty are their eyes, how their eyelids are lifted up! <a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> --a generation whose teeth are swords, and their jaw-teeth knives, to devour the afflicted from off the earth, and the needy from among men.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The leech hath two daughters: Give, give. There are three things never satisfied; four which say not, It is enough: <a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> --Sheol, and the barren womb; the earth which is not filled with water, and the fire which saith not, It is enough. <a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The eye that mocketh at a father, and despiseth to obey a mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There are three things too wonderful for me, and four that I know not: <a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of an eagle in the heavens, the way of a serpent upon a rock, the way of a ship in the midst of the sea, and the way of a man with a maid. <a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Such is the way of an adulterous woman: she eateth, and wipeth her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness. <a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Under three things the earth is disquieted, and under four it cannot bear up: <a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Under a servant when he reigneth, and a churl when he is filled with meat; <a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> under an odious woman when she is married, and a handmaid when she is heir to her mistress.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> There are four things little upon the earth, and they are exceeding wise: <a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The ants, a people not strong, yet they provide their food in the summer; <a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> the rock-badgers are but a feeble folk, yet they make their house in the cliff; <a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> the locusts have no king, yet they go forth all of them by bands; <a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> thou takest hold of the lizard with the hands, yet is she in kings' palaces.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> There are three things which have a stately step, and four are comely in going: <a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The lion, mighty among beasts, which turneth not away for any; <a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> a horse girt in the loins; or the he-goat; and a king, against whom none can rise up. <a id="c30_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou hast thought evil, lay the hand upon thy mouth. <a id="c30_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For the pressing of milk bringeth forth butter, and the pressing of the nose bringeth forth blood; and the pressing of anger bringeth forth strife.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>