<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These are also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah transcribed.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It is the glory of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> to conceal a thing; but the glory of kings is to search out a thing. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The heavens for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings is unsearchable.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Take away the dross from the silver, and there cometh forth a vessel for the refiner: <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Put not thyself forward in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of the great; <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither, than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes see.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Debate thy cause with thy neighbour, but reveal not the secret of another; <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> lest he that heareth it disgrace thee, and thine evil report turn not away.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As apples of gold in pictures of silver, is a word spoken in season. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> An ear-ring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, is a wise reprover upon an attentive ear.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Clouds and wind without rain, so is a man that boasteth himself of a false gift.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By long forbearing is a ruler persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Hast thou found honey? Eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be surfeited therewith, and vomit it.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let thy foot be seldom in thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee and hate thee.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow, is a man that beareth false witness against his neighbour.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A broken tooth, and a tottering foot, is confidence in an unfaithful man in the day of trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> As he that taketh off a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to a sad heart.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink: <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and Jehovah shall reward thee.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The north wind bringeth forth rain, and the angry countenance a backbiting tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a contentious woman, and a house in common.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> A troubled fountain, and a defiled well, is a righteous man that giveth way before the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> It is not good to eat much honey; and to search into weighty matters is itself a weight.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He that hath no rule over his own spirit is as a city broken down, without walls.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>