<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A wise son heareth his father's instruction; but a scorner heareth not rebuke.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth; but the soul of the treacherous, violence.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He that guardeth his mouth keepeth his soul; destruction shall be to him that openeth wide his lips.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A sluggard's soul desireth and hath nothing; but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A righteous man hateth lying; but the wicked maketh himself odious and cometh to shame.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Righteousness preserveth him that is perfect in the way; but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> There is that feigneth himself rich, and hath nothing; there is that maketh himself poor, and hath great wealth.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The ransom of a man's life is his riches; but the indigent heareth not rebuke.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The light of the righteous rejoiceth; but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> By pride there only cometh contention; but with the well-advised is wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wealth gotten by vanity diminisheth; but he that gathereth by manual-labour shall increase it.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hope deferred maketh the heart sick; but the desire that cometh to pass is a tree of life.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoso despiseth the word shall be held by it; but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The teaching of the wise man is a fountain of life, to turn away from the snares of death.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Good understanding procureth favour; but the way of the treacherous is hard.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Every prudent man acteth with knowledge; but the foolish layeth open his folly.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> A wicked messenger falleth into evil; but a faithful ambassador is health.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction; but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul; but it is abomination to the foolish to depart from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He that walketh with wise men becometh wise; but a companion of the foolish will be depraved.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Evil pursueth sinners; but to the righteous good shall be repaid.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children; but the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the righteous man.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Much food is in the tillage of the poor; but there is that is lost for want of judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He that spareth his rod hateth his son; but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul; but the belly of the wicked shall want.</p>

</body>
</html>