<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, attend unto my wisdom, incline thine ear to my understanding; <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that thou mayest keep reflection, and that thy lips may preserve knowledge. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the lips of the strange woman drop honey, and her mouth is smoother than oil; <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on Sheol. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Lest she should ponder the path of life, her ways wander, she knoweth not whither. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And now, children, hearken unto me, and depart not from the words of my mouth. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house: <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto the cruel; <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> lest strangers be filled with thy wealth, and the fruits of thy toil come into the house of a stranger; <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and thou mourn in thine end, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed; <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and thou say, How have I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof! <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and I have not hearkened unto the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to those that instructed me; <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I was well nigh in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thy fountains shall be poured forth, as water-brooks in the broadways. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let them be only thine own, and not strangers' with thee. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let thy fountain be blessed; and have joy of the wife of thy youth. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As a lovely hind and a graceful roe, let her breasts satisfy thee at all times: be thou ravished continually with her love. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And why shouldest thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger? <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the ways of man are before the eyes of Jehovah, and he pondereth all his paths. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> His own iniquities shall take the wicked, and he shall be holden with the cords of his sin. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He shall die for want of discipline; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray.</p>

</body>
</html>