<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whoso loveth discipline loveth knowledge, but he that hateth reproof is brutish.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A good man obtaineth favour of Jehovah; but a man of mischievous devices will he condemn.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A man shall not be established by wickedness; but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> A woman of worth is a crown to her husband; but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The thoughts of the righteous are right; the counsels of the wicked are deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The words of the wicked are a lying-in-wait for blood; but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Overthrow the wicked, and they are no more; but the house of the righteous shall stand.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A man is commended according to his wisdom; but he that is of a perverted heart shall be despised.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Better is he that is lightly esteemed, and hath a servant, than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A righteous man is concerned for the life of his beast; but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread; but he that followeth the worthless is void of understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The wicked desireth the net of evil men; but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In the transgression of the lips is an evil snare; but a righteous man shall go forth out of trouble.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> A man is satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth; and the recompense of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The way of a fool is right in his own eyes; but he that is wise hearkeneth unto counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The vexation of the fool is presently known; but a prudent man covereth shame.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He that uttereth truth sheweth forth righteousness; but a false witness deceit.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There is that babbleth like the piercings of a sword; but the tongue of the wise is health.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The lip of truth shall be established for ever; but a lying tongue is but for a moment.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Deceit is in the heart of them that devise evil; but to the counsellors of peace is joy.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There shall no evil happen to a righteous man; but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Lying lips are an abomination to Jehovah; but they that deal truly are his delight.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A prudent man concealeth knowledge; but the heart of the foolish proclaimeth folly.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The hand of the diligent shall bear rule; but the slothful hand shall be under tribute.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop; but a good word maketh it glad.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The righteous guideth his neighbour; but the way of the wicked misleadeth them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The slothful roasteth not what he took in hunting; but man's precious substance is to the diligent.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the path of righteousness is life, and in the pathway thereof there is no death.</p>

</body>
</html>