<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be not thou envious of evil men, neither desire to be with them; <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of mischief.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Through wisdom is a house built, and by understanding it is established; <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and by knowledge are the chambers filled with all precious and pleasant substance. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A wise man is strong, and a man of knowledge increaseth strength. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For with good advice shalt thou make thy war; and in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wisdom is too high for a fool: he will not open his mouth in the gate. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a master of intrigues. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The purpose of folly is sin, and the scorner is an abomination to men.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If thou losest courage in the day of trouble, thy strength is small.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Deliver them that are taken forth unto death, and withdraw not from them that stagger to slaughter. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not, will not he that weigheth the hearts consider it? And he that preserveth thy soul, he knoweth it; and he rendereth to man according to his work.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Eat honey, my son, for it is good; and a honeycomb is sweet to thy taste: <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> so consider wisdom for thy soul; if thou hast found it, there shall be a result, and thine expectation shall not be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lay not wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the righteous; lay not waste his resting-place. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the righteous falleth seven times, and riseth up again; but the wicked stumble into disaster.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thy heart be glad when he stumbleth; <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> lest Jehovah see it, and it be evil in his sight, and he turn away his anger from him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Fret not thyself because of evil-doers, and be not envious of the wicked: <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for there shall be no future to the evil man; the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son, fear Jehovah and the king: meddle not with them that are given to change. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For their calamity shall rise suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin of them both?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> These things also come from the wise. It is not good to have respect of persons in judgment. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He that saith unto the wicked, Thou art righteous, peoples shall curse him, nations shall abhor him; <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but to them that rebuke him shall be delight, and a good blessing cometh upon them. <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He kisseth the lips who giveth a right answer.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Prepare thy work without, and put thy field in order, and afterwards build thy house.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Be not a witness against thy neighbour without cause; and wouldest thou deceive with thy lips? <a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me, I will render to the man according to his work.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I went by the field of a sluggard, and by the vineyard of a man void of understanding; <a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and lo, it was all grown over with thistles, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and its stone wall was broken down. <a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then I looked, I took it to heart; I saw, I received instruction: <a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> --A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest! <a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> So shall thy poverty come as a roving plunderer, and thy penury as an armed man.</p>

</body>
</html>