<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A false balance is an abomination to Jehovah; but a just weight is his delight.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When pride cometh, then cometh shame; but with the lowly is wisdom.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The integrity of the upright guideth them; but the crookedness of the unfaithful destroyeth them.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wealth profiteth not in the day of wrath; but righteousness delivereth from death.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The righteousness of the perfect maketh plain his way; but the wicked falleth by his own wickedness. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The righteousness of the upright delivereth them; but the treacherous are taken in their own craving.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish; and the hope of evil men perisheth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With his mouth a hypocrite destroyeth his neighbour; but through knowledge are the righteous delivered.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth; and when the wicked perish, there is shouting. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted; but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He that despiseth his neighbour is void of heart; but a man of understanding holdeth his peace. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He that goeth about talebearing revealeth secrets; but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Where no advice is, the people fall; but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It goeth ill with him that is surety for another; but he that hateth suretyship is secure.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A gracious woman retaineth honour; and the violent retain riches.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The merciful man doeth good to his own soul; but the cruel troubleth his own flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The wicked worketh a deceitful work; but he that soweth righteousness hath a sure reward.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As righteousness tendeth to life, so he that pursueth evil doeth it to his own death.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The perverse in heart are abomination to Jehovah; but they that are perfect in their way are his delight.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Hand for hand! an evil man shall not be held innocent; but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A fair woman who is without discretion, is as a gold ring in a swine's snout.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The desire of the righteous is only good; the expectation of the wicked is wrath.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is right, but it tendeth only to want.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The liberal soul shall be made fat, and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He that withholdeth corn, the people curse him; but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He that is earnest after good seeketh favour; but he that searcheth for mischief, it shall come upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the righteous shall flourish as a leaf.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> He that troubleth his own house shall inherit wind; and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and the wise winneth souls.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Behold, the righteous shall be requited on the earth: how much more the wicked and the sinner.</p>

</body>
</html>