<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than a house full of feasting with strife.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A wise servant shall rule over a son that causeth shame, and shall have part in the inheritance among the brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The fining-pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold; but Jehovah trieth the hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The evil-doer giveth heed to iniquitous lips; the liar giveth ear to a mischievous tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Whoso mocketh a poor man reproacheth his Maker; he that is glad at calamity shall not be held innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Children's children are the crown of old men; and the glory of children are their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Excellent speech becometh not a vile man; how much less do lying lips a noble!</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> A gift is a precious stone in the eyes of the possessor: whithersoever it turneth it prospereth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He that covereth transgression seeketh love; but he that bringeth a matter up again separateth very friends.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A reproof entereth more deeply into him that hath understanding than a hundred stripes into a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> An evil man seeketh only rebellion; but a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man rather than a fool in his folly.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The beginning of contention is as when one letteth out water; therefore leave off strife before it become vehement.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the righteous, even they both are abomination to Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> To what purpose is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing he hath no sense?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A senseless man striketh hands, becoming surety for his neighbour.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He loveth transgression that loveth a quarrel; he that maketh high his gate seeketh destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He that hath a perverse heart findeth no good; and he that shifteth about with his tongue falleth into evil.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow, and the father of a vile man hath no joy.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> A joyful heart promoteth healing; but a broken spirit drieth up the bones.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom, to pervert the paths of judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bore him.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> To punish a righteous man is not good, nor to strike nobles because of their uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He that hath knowledge spareth his words; and a man of understanding is of a cool spirit. <a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Even a fool when he holdeth his peace is reckoned wise, and he that shutteth his lips, intelligent.</p>

</body>
</html>