<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour beseemeth not a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As the sparrow for flitting about, as the swallow for flying, so a curse undeserved shall not come.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the back of fools.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him. <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off his own feet, and drinketh damage. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The legs of the lame hang loose; so is a proverb in the mouth of fools. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As a bag of gems in a stoneheap, so is he that giveth honour to a fool. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a proverb in the mouth of fools.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A master roughly worketh every one: he both hireth the fool and hireth passers-by.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As a dog turneth back to its vomit, so a fool repeateth his folly.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hast thou seen a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope of a fool than of him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sluggard saith, There is a fierce lion in the way; a lion is in the midst of the streets!</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> As the door turneth upon its hinges, so the sluggard upon his bed.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sluggard burieth his hand in the dish: it wearieth him to bring it again to his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men that answer discreetly.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He that passing by vexeth himself with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As a madman who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death, <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> so is a man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am I not in sport?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Where no wood is, the fire goeth out; and where there is no talebearer, the contention ceaseth. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> As coals for hot coals, and wood for fire, so is a contentious man to inflame strife. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The words of a talebearer are as dainty morsels, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ardent lips, and a wicked heart, are as an earthen vessel overlaid with silver dross.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, but he layeth up deceit within him: <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> when his voice is gracious, believe him not, for there are seven abominations in his heart. <a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Though his hatred is covered by dissimulation, his wickedness shall be made manifest in the congregation.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein; and he that rolleth a stone, it shall return upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A lying tongue hateth those that are injured by it, and a flattering mouth worketh ruin.</p>

</body>
</html>