<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> A good name is rather to be chosen than great riches; loving favour rather than silver and gold.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The rich and poor meet together; Jehovah is the maker of them all.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A prudent man seeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the simple pass on, and are punished.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The reward of humility and the fear of Jehovah is riches, and honour, and life.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thorns and snares are in the way of the perverse: he that keepeth his soul holdeth himself far from them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Train up the child according to the tenor of his way, and when he is old he will not depart from it.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The rich ruleth over the poor; and the borrower is servant to the lender.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He that soweth unrighteousness shall reap iniquity, and the rod of his wrath shall have an end.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed, for he giveth of his bread to the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Cast out the scorner, and contention will depart, and strife and ignominy shall cease.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He that loveth pureness of heart, upon whose lips is grace, the king is his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The eyes of Jehovah preserve knowledge; but he overthroweth the words of the unfaithful.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sluggard saith, There is a lion without, I shall be killed in the streets!</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The mouth of strange women is a deep ditch: he with whom Jehovah is displeased shall fall therein.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Folly is bound in the heart of a child; the rod of correction shall drive it far from him.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He that oppresseth the poor, it is to enrich him; he that giveth to the rich, bringeth only to want.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Incline thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply thy heart unto my knowledge. <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee: they shall be together fitted on thy lips. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> That thy confidence may be in Jehovah, I have made them known to thee this day, even to thee. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Have not I written to thee excellent things, in counsels and knowledge, <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth; that thou mightest carry back words of truth to them that send thee?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Rob not the poor, because he is poor, neither oppress the afflicted in the gate; <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for Jehovah will plead their cause, and despoil the soul of those that despoil them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Make no friendship with an angry man, and go not with a furious man; <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> lest thou learn his paths, and get a snare to thy soul.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Be not of them that strike hands, of them that are sureties for debts: <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> if thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy bed from under thee?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Remove not the ancient landmark which thy fathers have set.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Hast thou seen a man diligent in his work? He shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before the mean.</p>

</body>
</html>