<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know intelligence; <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for I give you good doctrine: forsake ye not my law. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I was a son unto my father, tender and an only one in the sight of my mother. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he taught me, and said unto me, Let thy heart retain my words; keep my commandments and live. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Get wisdom, get intelligence: forget it not; neither decline from the words of my mouth. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Forsake her not, and she shall keep thee; love her, and she shall preserve thee. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The beginning of wisdom is, Get wisdom; and with all thy getting get intelligence. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Exalt her, and she shall promote thee; she shall bring thee to honour when thou dost embrace her. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> She shall give to thy head a garland of grace; a crown of glory will she bestow upon thee. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear, my son, and receive my sayings, and the years of thy life shall be multiplied. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will teach thee in the way of wisdom, I will lead thee in paths of uprightness. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take fast hold of instruction, let her not go: keep her, for she is thy life.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men: <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> avoid it, pass not by it; turn from it, and pass away. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For they sleep not except they have done mischief, and their sleep is taken away unless they have caused some to fall. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the path of the righteous is as the shining light, going on and brightening until the day be fully come. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they stumble.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thy heart. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Keep thy heart more than anything that is guarded; for out of it are the issues of life. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Put away from thee perverseness of mouth, and corrupt lips put far from thee. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be well-ordered. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Turn not to the right hand nor to the left; remove thy foot from evil.</p>

</body>
</html>