<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Boast not thyself of to-morrow, for thou knowest not what a day will bring forth.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let another praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger, and not thine own lips.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> A stone is heavy, and the sand weighty; but a fool's vexation is heavier than them both. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Fury is cruel, and anger is outrageous; but who is able to stand before jealousy?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Open rebuke is better than hidden love. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are profuse.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The full soul trampleth on a honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As a bird that wandereth from her nest, so is a man that wandereth from his place.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart; and the sweetness of one's friend is the fruit of hearty counsel. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thine own friend, and thy father's friend, forsake not; and go not into thy brother's house in the day of thy calamity: better is a neighbour that is near than a brother far off.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Be wise, my son, and make my heart glad, that I may have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A prudent man seeth the evil, and hideth himself; the simple pass on, and are punished.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Take his garment that is become surety for another, and hold him in pledge for a strange woman.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He that blesseth his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it shall be reckoned a curse to him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A continual dropping on a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike: <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> whosoever will restrain her restraineth the wind, and his right hand encountereth oil.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Iron is sharpened by iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoso keepeth the fig-tree shall eat the fruit thereof; and he that guardeth his master shall be honoured.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Sheol and destruction are insatiable; so the eyes of man are never satisfied.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The fining-pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold; so let a man be to the mouth that praiseth him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar among wheat with a pestle, yet will not his folly depart from him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Be well acquainted with the appearance of thy flocks; look well to thy herds: <a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for wealth is not for ever; and doth the crown endure from generation to generation? <a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The hay is removed, and the tender grass sheweth itself, and herbs of the mountains are gathered in. <a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The lambs are for thy clothing, and the goats are the price of a field; <a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and there is goats' milk enough for thy food, for the food of thy household, and sustenance for thy maidens.</p>

</body>
</html>