<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider well who is before thee; <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Be not desirous of his dainties; for they are deceitful food.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Weary not thyself to become rich; cease from thine own intelligence: <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> wilt thou set thine eyes upon it, it is gone; for indeed it maketh itself wings and it flieth away as an eagle towards the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Eat thou not the food of him that hath an evil eye, neither desire thou his dainties. <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For as he thinketh in his soul, so is he. Eat and drink! will he say unto thee; but his heart is not with thee. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thy morsel which thou hast eaten must thou vomit up, and thou wilt have wasted thy sweet words.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Speak not in the ears of a foolish man, for he will despise the wisdom of thy words.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Remove not the ancient landmark; and enter not into the fields of the fatherless: <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for their redeemer is mighty; he will plead their cause against thee.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Apply thy heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words of knowledge. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Withhold not correction from the child; for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die: <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from Sheol. <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My son, if thy heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even mine; <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and my reins shall exult, when thy lips speak right things.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let not thy heart envy sinners, but be thou in the fear of Jehovah all the day; <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for surely there is a result, and thine expectation shall not be cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou, my son, hear and be wise, and direct thy heart in the way. <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Be not among winebibbers, among riotous eaters of flesh. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty; and drowsiness clotheth with rags. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old. <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Buy the truth, and sell it not; wisdom, and instruction, and intelligence. <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The father of a righteous man shall greatly rejoice, and he that begetteth a wise son shall have joy of him: <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> let thy father and thy mother have joy, and let her that bore thee rejoice. <a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> My son, give me thy heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For a whore is a deep ditch; and a strange woman is a narrow pit. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> She also lieth in wait as a robber, and increaseth the treacherous among men.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Who hath woe? Who hath sorrow? Who contentions? Who complaining? Who wounds without cause? Who redness of eyes? <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> --They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to try mixed wine. <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Look not upon the wine when it is red, when it sparkleth in the cup, and goeth down smoothly: <a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> at the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder. <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thy heart shall speak froward things; <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea, and as he that lieth down upon the top of a mast: <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> --"They have smitten me, and I am not sore; they have beaten me, and I knew it not. When shall I awake? I will seek it yet again."</p>

</body>
</html>