<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Better is a poor man that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his lips, and is a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Also that a person be without knowledge is not good; and he that hasteth with his feet maketh false steps.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The folly of man distorteth his way, and his heart is irritated against Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Wealth addeth many friends; but the poor is separated from his friend.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A false witness shall not be held innocent, and he that uttereth lies shall not escape.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Many court the favour of a noble; and every one is friend to a man that giveth. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the brethren of a poor man hate him; how much more do his friends go far from him: he pursueth them with words, --they are not to be found.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He that getteth sense loveth his own soul; he that keepeth understanding shall find good.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> A false witness shall not be held innocent, and he that uttereth lies shall perish.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Good living beseemeth not a fool; how much less for a servant to have rule over princes.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The discretion of a man maketh him slow to anger, and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The king's displeasure is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is as dew upon the grass.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A foolish son is the calamity of his father; and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> House and wealth are an inheritance from fathers; but a prudent wife is from Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep, and the idle soul shall suffer hunger.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his soul; he that is careless of his ways shall die.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> He that is gracious to the poor lendeth unto Jehovah; and what he hath bestowed will he repay unto him.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Chasten thy son, seeing there is hope; but set not thy soul upon killing him.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment; for if thou deliver him, yet thou must do it again.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Many are the thoughts in a man's heart, but the counsel of Jehovah, that doth stand.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The charm of a man is his kindness; and a poor man is better than a liar.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The fear of Jehovah tendeth to life, and he that hath it shall rest satisfied without being visited with evil.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> A sluggard burieth his hand in the dish, and will not even bring it to his mouth again.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware; reprove the intelligent, and he will understand knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> He that ruineth his father and chaseth away his mother is a son that causeth shame and bringeth reproach.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Cease, my son, to hear the instruction which causeth to stray from the words of knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> A witness of Belial scorneth judgment, and the mouth of the wicked swalloweth down iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of the foolish.</p>

</body>
</html>