<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Proverbs 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Proverbs 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My son, forget not my teaching, and let thy heart observe my commandments; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for length of days, and years of life, and peace shall they add to thee. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let not loving-kindness and truth forsake thee; bind them about thy neck, write them upon the tablet of thy heart: <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and thou shalt find favour and good understanding in the sight of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and man. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Confide in Jehovah with all thy heart, and lean not unto thine own intelligence; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> in all thy ways acknowledge him, and he will make plain thy paths.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be not wise in thine own eyes; fear Jehovah, and depart from evil: <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> it shall be health for thy navel, and moisture for thy bones. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Honour Jehovah with thy substance, and with the first-fruits of all thine increase; <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> so shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy vats shall overflow with new wine. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My son, despise not the instruction of Jehovah, neither be weary of his chastisement; <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for whom Jehovah loveth he chasteneth, even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Blessed is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the gain thereof is better than the gain of silver, and her revenue than fine gold. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> She is more precious than rubies; and all the things thou canst desire are not equal unto her. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Length of days is in her right hand; in her left hand riches and honour. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her; and happy is he that retaineth her. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jehovah by wisdom founded the earth; by understanding he established the heavens. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By his knowledge the deeps were broken up, and the skies drop down the dew.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My son, let them not depart from thine eyes; keep sound wisdom and discretion: <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> so shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace unto thy neck. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then shalt thou walk in thy way securely, and thy foot shall not stumble; <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> when thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid, but thou shalt lie down and thy sleep shall be sweet. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the destruction of the wicked, when it cometh; <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for Jehovah shall be thy confidence, and he will keep thy foot from being taken.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thy hand to do it. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to-morrow I will give, when thou hast it by thee. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee. <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Envy not the man of violence, and choose none of his ways. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For the perverse is an abomination to Jehovah; but his secret is with the upright. <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The curse of Jehovah is in the house of the wicked; but he blesseth the habitation of the righteous. <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> He indeed scorneth the scorners; but he giveth grace unto the lowly. <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The wise shall inherit glory; but shame shall be the promotion of the foolish.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>