<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to stink and ferment; so a little folly is weightier than wisdom and honour. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The heart of a wise man is at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yea also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his sense faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for quietness pacifieth great offences. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, as an error that proceedeth from the ruler: <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> folly is set in great dignities, but the rich sit in a low place. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants upon the earth. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He that diggeth a pit falleth into it; and whoso breaketh down a hedge, a serpent biteth him. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whoso removeth stones is hurt therewith; he that cleaveth wood is endangered thereby. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If the iron be blunt, and one do not whet the edge, then must he apply more strength; but wisdom is profitable to give success. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If the serpent bite before enchantment, then the charmer hath no advantage.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool swallow up himself. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The beginning of the words of his mouth is folly; and the end of his talk is mischievous madness. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the fool multiplieth words: yet man knoweth not what shall be; and what shall be after him, who will tell him? <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The labour of fools wearieth them, because they know not how to go to the city.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning! <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Happy art thou, O land, when thy king is a son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness! <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By much sloth fulness the framework falleth in; and through idleness of the hands the house drippeth. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh life merry; but money answereth everything. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Curse not the king, no, not in thy thought; and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber: for the bird of the air will carry the voice, and that which hath wings will tell the matter.</p>

</body>
</html>