<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I returned and saw all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold, the tears of the oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors was power, and they had no comforter. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then I praised the dead who are already dead more than the living who are yet alive; <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and more fortunate than both is he who hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I saw all labour, and all success of work, that it is man's jealousy of his neighbour. This also is vanity and pursuit of the wind. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Better is a handful with quietness, than both hands full with labour and pursuit of the wind.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I returned and saw vanity under the sun. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There is one alone and without a second; also he hath neither son nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labour, neither is his eye satisfied with riches, and he saith not, For whom then am I labouring, and depriving my soul of good? This also is vanity and a grievous occupation. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow; but woe to him that is alone when he falleth, and who hath not another to lift him up! <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Again, if two lie together, then they have warmth; but how can one alone be warm? <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And if a man overpower the one, the two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Better is a poor but wise youth than an old and foolish king, who knoweth no more how to be admonished. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For out of the prison-house he came forth to reign, although he was born poor in his kingdom. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I saw all the living that walk under the sun, with the child, the second, that should stand up in his stead. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> There is no end of all the people, of all that stood before them; those however that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a striving after the wind.</p>

</body>
</html>