<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ecclesiastes 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ecclesiastes 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities! all is vanity. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> What profit hath man of all his labour wherewith he laboureth under the sun?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh, but the earth standeth for ever. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sun also riseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to its place where it ariseth. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The wind goeth towards the south, and turneth about towards the north: it turneth about continually, and the wind returneth again to its circuits. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full: unto the place whither the rivers go, thither they go again. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All things are full of toil; none can express it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> That which hath been is that which shall be; and that which hath been done is that which will be done: and there is nothing new under the sun. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Is there a thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new? It hath been already in the ages which were before us. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is no remembrance of former things; neither shall there be remembrance of things that are to come with those who shall live afterwards.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I, the Preacher, was king over Israel in Jerusalem. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I applied my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all that is done under the heavens: this grievous occupation hath God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> given to the children of men to weary themselves therewith. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have seen all the works that are done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity and pursuit of the wind. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> That which is crooked cannot be made straight; and that which is wanting cannot be numbered. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I have become great and have acquired wisdom more than all they that have been before me over Jerusalem; and my heart hath seen much of wisdom and knowledge. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I applied my heart to the knowledge of wisdom, and to the knowledge of madness and folly: I perceived that this also is a striving after the wind. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For in much wisdom is much vexation, and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>