<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> On my bed, in the nights, I sought him whom my soul loveth: I sought him, but I found him not. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will rise now, and go about the city; In the streets and in the broadways Will I seek him whom my soul loveth: I sought him, but I found him not. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The watchmen that go about the city found me: --Have ye seen him whom my soul loveth? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> --Scarcely had I passed from them, When I found him whom my soul loveth: I held him, and would not let him go, Until I had brought him into my mother's house, And into the chamber of her that conceived me. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I charge you, daughters of Jerusalem, By the gazelles, or by the hinds of the field, That ye stir not up, nor awake my love, till he please.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Who is this, she that cometh up from the wilderness Like pillars of smoke, Perfumed with myrrh and frankincense, With all powders of the merchant? ...</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold his couch, Solomon's own: Threescore mighty men are about it, Of the mighty of Israel. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They all hold the sword, Experts in war; Each hath his sword upon his thigh Because of alarm in the nights. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> King Solomon made himself a palanquin Of the wood of Lebanon. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Its pillars he made of silver, Its support of gold, Its seat of purple; The midst thereof was paved with love By the daughters of Jerusalem. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Go forth, daughters of Zion, And behold king Solomon With the crown wherewith his mother crowned him In the day of his espousals, And in the day of the gladness of his heart.</p>

</body>
</html>