<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; Thine eyes are doves behind thy veil; Thy hair is as a flock of goats, On the slopes of mount Gilead. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Thy teeth are like a flock of shorn sheep, Which go up from the washing; Which have all borne twins, And none is barren among them. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thy lips are like a thread of scarlet, And thy speech is comely; As a piece of a pomegranate are thy temples Behind thy veil. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy neck is like the tower of David, Built for an armoury: A thousand bucklers hang thereon, All shields of mighty men. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thy two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle, Which feed among the lilies. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Until the day dawn, and the shadows flee away, I will get me to the mountain of myrrh, And to the hill of frankincense. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thou art all fair, my love; And there is no spot in thee.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Come with me, from Lebanon, my spouse, With me from Lebanon, --Come, look from the top of Amanah, From the top of Senir and Hermon, From the lions' dens, From the mountains of the leopards. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast ravished my heart, my sister, my spouse; Thou hast ravished my heart with one of thine eyes, With one chain of thy neck. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> How fair is thy love, my sister, my spouse! How much better is thy love than wine! And the fragrance of thine ointments than all spices! <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thy lips, my spouse, drop as the honeycomb; Honey and milk are under thy tongue; And the smell of thy garments is like the smell of Lebanon. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> A garden enclosed is my sister, my spouse; A spring shut up, a fountain sealed. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thy shoots are a paradise of pomegranates, with precious fruits; Henna with spikenard plants; <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Spikenard and saffron; Calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense; Myrrh and aloes, with all the chief spices:</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> A fountain in the gardens, A well of living waters, Which stream from Lebanon. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Awake, north wind, and come, thou south; Blow upon my garden, that the spices thereof may flow forth. Let my beloved come into his garden, And eat its precious fruits.</p>

</body>
</html>