<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh that thou wert as my brother, That sucked the breasts of my mother! Should I find thee without, I would kiss thee; And they would not despise me. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I would lead thee, bring thee into my mother's house; Thou wouldest instruct me: I would cause thee to drink of spiced wine, Of the juice of my pomegranate. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His left hand would be under my head, And his right hand embrace me. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I charge you, daughters of Jerusalem, ...Why should ye stir up, why awake my love, till he please?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, Leaning upon her beloved? I awoke thee under the apple-tree: There thy mother brought thee forth; There she brought thee forth that bore thee. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Set me as a seal upon thy heart, As a seal upon thine arm: For love is strong as death; Jealousy is cruel as Sheol: The flashes thereof are flashes of fire, Flames of Jah. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Many waters cannot quench love, Neither do the floods drown it: Even if a man gave all the substance of his house for love, It would utterly be contemned.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> We have a little sister, And she hath no breasts: What shall we do for our sister In the day when she shall be spoken for? -- <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If she be a wall, We will build upon her a turret of silver; And if she be a door, We will enclose her with boards of cedar. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I am a wall, and my breasts like towers; Then was I in his eyes as one that findeth peace. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Solomon had a vineyard at Baal-hamon: He let out the vineyard unto keepers; Every one for the fruit thereof was to bring a thousand silver-pieces. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My vineyard, which is mine, is before me: The thousand silver-pieces be to thee, Solomon; And to the keepers of its fruit, two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou that dwellest in the gardens, The companions hearken to thy voice: Let me hear it. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Haste, my beloved, And be thou like a gazelle or a young hart Upon the mountains of spices.</p>

</body>
</html>