<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am a narcissus of Sharon, A lily of the valleys. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As the lily among thorns, So is my love among the daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> As the apple-tree among the trees of the wood, So is my beloved among the sons: In his shadow have I rapture and sit down; And his fruit is sweet to my taste. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He hath brought me to the house of wine, And his banner over me is love. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Sustain ye me with raisin-cakes, Refresh me with apples; For I am sick of love. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> His left hand is under my head, And his right hand doth embrace me. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I charge you, daughters of Jerusalem, By the gazelles, or by the hinds of the field, That ye stir not up, nor awake my love, till he please.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The voice of my beloved! Behold, he cometh Leaping upon the mountains, Skipping upon the hills. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My beloved is like a gazelle or a young hart. Behold, he standeth behind our wall, He looketh in through the windows, Glancing through the lattice. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> My beloved spake and said unto me, Rise up, my love, my fair one, and come away. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For behold, the winter is past, The rain is over, it is gone: <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The flowers appear on the earth; The time of singing is come, And the voice of the turtle-dove is heard in our land; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The fig-tree melloweth her winter figs, And the vines in bloom give forth their fragrance. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away!</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My dove, in the clefts of the rock, In the covert of the precipice, Let me see thy countenance, let me hear thy voice; For sweet is thy voice, and thy countenance is comely. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Take us the foxes, The little foxes, that spoil the vineyards; For our vineyards are in bloom. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> My beloved is mine, and I am his; He feedeth his flock among the lilies, <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Until the day dawn, and the shadows flee away. Turn, my beloved: be thou like a gazelle or a young hart, Upon the mountains of Bether.</p>

</body>
</html>