<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The song of songs, which is Solomon's.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth; For thy love is better than wine. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thine ointments savour sweetly; Thy name is an ointment poured forth: Therefore do the virgins love thee. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Draw me, we will run after thee! --The king hath brought me into his chambers--We will be glad and rejoice in thee, We will remember thy love more than wine. They love thee uprightly. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I am black, but comely, daughters of Jerusalem, As the tents of Kedar, As the curtains of Solomon. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Look not upon me, because I am black; Because the sun hath looked upon me. My mother's children were angry with me: They made me keeper of the vineyards; Mine own vineyard have I not kept.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Tell me, thou whom my soul loveth, Where thou feedest thy flock, Where thou makest it to rest at noon; For why should I be as one veiled Beside the flocks of thy companions? <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If thou know not, thou fairest among women, Go thy way forth by the footsteps of the flock, And feed thy kids beside the shepherds' booths. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I compare thee, my love, To a steed in Pharaoh's chariots. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy cheeks are comely with bead-rows, Thy neck with ornamental chains. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> We will make thee bead-rows of gold With studs of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> While the king is at his table, My spikenard sendeth forth its fragrance. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> A bundle of myrrh is my beloved unto me; He shall pass the night between my breasts. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> My beloved is unto me a cluster of henna-flowers In the vineyards of Engedi. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, thou art fair, my love; Behold, thou art fair: thine eyes are doves. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, thou art fair, my beloved, yea, pleasant; Also our bed is green. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The beams of our houses are cedars, Our rafters are cypresses.</p>

</body>
</html>