<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Song of Solomon 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Song of Solomon 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Whither is thy beloved gone, Thou fairest among women? Whither is thy beloved turned aside? And we will seek him with thee. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> My beloved is gone down into his garden, to the beds of spices, To feed in the gardens and to gather lilies. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I am my beloved's, and my beloved is mine: He feedeth his flock among the lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou art fair, my love, as Tirzah, Comely as Jerusalem, Terrible as troops with banners: <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Turn away thine eyes from me, For they overcome me. Thy hair is as a flock of goats On the slopes of Gilead. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy teeth are like a flock of sheep Which go up from the washing; Which have all borne twins, And none is barren among them. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As a piece of a pomegranate are thy temples Behind thy veil. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> There are threescore queens, and fourscore concubines, And virgins without number: <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My dove, mine undefiled, is but one; She is the only one of her mother, She is the choice one of her that bore her. The daughters saw her, and they called her blessed; The queens and the concubines, and they praised her. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is she that looketh forth as the dawn, Fair as the moon, clear as the sun, Terrible as troops with banners?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I went down into the garden of nuts, To see the verdure of the valley, To see whether the vine budded, Whether the pomegranates blossomed. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Before I was aware, My soul set me upon the chariots of my willing people. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Return, return, O Shulamite; Return, return, that we may look upon thee. --What would ye look upon in the Shulamite? --As it were the dance of two camps.</p>

</body>
</html>