<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 54</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 54</h2>

<p><a id="c54_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Exult, thou barren, that didst not bear; break forth into singing, and shout for joy, thou that didst not travail with child: for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith Jehovah. <a id="c54_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thy habitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy stakes. <a id="c54_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For thou shalt spread abroad on the right hand and on the left; and thy seed shall possess nations, and they shall make desolate cities to be inhabited. <a id="c54_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Fear not, for thou shalt not be ashamed; neither be thou confounded, for thou shalt not be put to shame: for thou shalt forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thy widowhood any more. <a id="c54_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For thy Maker is thy husband: Jehovah of hosts is his name, and thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of the whole earth shall he be called.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For Jehovah hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, and as a wife of youth, that hath been refused, saith thy God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c54_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but with great mercies will I gather thee. <a id="c54_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In the outpouring of wrath have I hid my face from thee for a moment; but with everlasting loving-kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith Jehovah, thy Redeemer. <a id="c54_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this is as the waters of Noah unto me, since I have sworn that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth: so have I sworn that I will no more be wroth with thee, nor rebuke thee. <a id="c54_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but my loving-kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall my covenant of peace be removed, saith Jehovah, that hath mercy on thee.</p>

<p><a id="c54_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, not comforted! Behold, I will set thy stones in antimony, and lay thy foundations with sapphires; <a id="c54_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and I will make thy battlements of rubies, and thy gates of carbuncles, and all thy borders of precious stones. <a id="c54_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And all thy children shall be taught of Jehovah, and great shall be the peace of thy children. <a id="c54_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In righteousness shalt thou be established: thou shalt be far from oppression, for thou shalt not fear; and from terror, for it shall not come near thee. <a id="c54_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Behold, they shall surely gather together, but not by me: whosoever gathereth together against thee shall fall because of thee. <a id="c54_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Behold, it is I who have created the smith that bloweth in the fire of coal, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and I have created the destroyer to ravage. <a id="c54_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> No weapon that is prepared against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that riseth against thee in judgment, thou shalt condemn. This is the inheritance of the servants of Jehovah; and their righteousness is of me, saith Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>