<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 53</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 53</h2>

<p><a id="c53_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Who hath believed our report? and to whom hath the arm of Jehovah been revealed? <a id="c53_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he shall grow up before him as a tender sapling, and as a root out of dry ground: he hath no form nor lordliness, and when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. <a id="c53_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He is despised and left alone of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their faces; --despised, and we esteemed him not.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows; and we, we did regard him stricken, smitten of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and afflicted. <a id="c53_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. <a id="c53_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All we like sheep have gone astray, we have turned every one to his own way; and Jehovah hath laid upon him the iniquity of us all. <a id="c53_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, but he opened not his mouth; he was led as a lamb to the slaughter, and was as a sheep dumb before her shearers, and he opened not his mouth. <a id="c53_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He was taken from oppression and from judgment; and who shall declare his generation? for he was cut off out of the land of the living; for the transgression of my people was he stricken. <a id="c53_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And men appointed his grave with the wicked, but he was with the rich in his death, because he had done no violence, neither was there guile in his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c53_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet it pleased Jehovah to bruise him; he hath subjected him to suffering. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see a seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of Jehovah shall prosper in his hand. <a id="c53_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He shall see of the fruit of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my righteous servant instruct many in righteousness; and he shall bear their iniquities. <a id="c53_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore will I assign him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong: because he hath poured out his soul unto death, and was reckoned with the transgressors; and he bore the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>