<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Behold, Jehovah maketh the land empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad its inhabitants. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so with him from whom usury is taken. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled; for Jehovah hath spoken this word. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The land mourneth, it fadeth away; the world languisheth, it fadeth away: the haughty people of the land do languish. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the land is polluted under the inhabitants thereof; for they have violated the laws, changed the statute, broken the everlasting covenant. <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore doth the curse devour the earth, and they that dwell therein are held guilty; therefore the inhabitants of the earth are consumed, and few men are left. <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth, all that were merry-hearted do sigh; <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> the mirth of tambours ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoice endeth, the joy of the harp ceaseth. <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They do not drink wine with a song; strong drink is bitter to them that drink it. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The city of solitude is broken down; every house is shut up, so that none entereth in. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> There is a crying for wine in the streets; all joy is darkened, the mirth of the land is gone; <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> desolation remaineth in the city, and the gate is smitten, --a ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For so will it be in the midst of the land among the peoples, as the shaking of an olive-tree, as the grape-gleanings when the vintage is done. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These shall lift up their voice, they shall shout for the majesty of Jehovah, they shall cry aloud from the sea. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore glorify Jehovah in the east, the name of Jehovah, the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel, in the isles of the west.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> From the end of the earth have we heard songs: Glory to the righteous! And I said, My leanness, my leanness, woe unto me! The treacherous have dealt treacherously; yea, the treacherous have dealt very treacherously. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fear, and the pit, and the snare are upon thee, inhabitant of the land. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it shall come to pass, that he who fleeth from the sound of the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that cometh up out of the midst of the pit shall be taken in the snare; for the windows on high are open, and the foundations of the earth shake. <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The earth is utterly broken down, the earth is completely dissolved, the earth is violently moved. <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The earth reeleth to and fro like a drunkard, and is shaken like a night hut; and its transgression is heavy upon it; and it falleth and shall not rise again. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, that Jehovah will punish the host of the high ones on high, and the kings of the earth upon the earth. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they shall be brought together, as an assemblage of prisoners for the pit, and shall be shut up in prison, and after many days shall they be visited. <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed; for Jehovah of hosts shall reign on mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before his ancients in glory.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>