<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the year of the death of king Uzziah, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up; and his train filled the temple. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Seraphim were standing above him: each had six wings; with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he flew. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And one called to the other and said, Holy, holy, holy is Jehovah of hosts; the whole earth is full of his glory! <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I said, Woe unto me! for I am undone; for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips: for mine eyes have seen the King, Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And one of the seraphim flew unto me, and he had in his hand a glowing coal, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar; <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and he made it touch my mouth, and said, Behold, this hath touched thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin expiated. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? And I said, Here am I; send me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said, Go; and thou shalt say unto this people, Hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand, and seeing ye shall see and shall not perceive. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and blind their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and be converted, and healed. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I said, Lord, how long? And he said, Until the cities be wasted, without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land become an utter desolation, <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and Jehovah have removed men far away, and the solitude be great in the midst of the land. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But a tenth part shall still be therein, and it shall return and be eaten; as the terebinth and as the oak whose trunk remaineth after the felling: the holy seed shall be the trunk thereof.</p>

</body>
</html>