<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 50</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 50</h2>

<p><a id="c50_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus saith Jehovah: Where is the bill of your mother's divorce, whom I have put away? or which of my creditors is it to whom I have sold you? Behold, through your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away. <a id="c50_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Wherefore did I come, and there was no man? I called, and there was none to answer? Is my hand at all shortened that I cannot redeem, or have I no power to deliver? behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make rivers a wilderness; their fish stink because there is no water, and die for thirst. <a id="c50_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their covering.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The Lord Jehovah hath given me the tongue of the instructed, that I should know how to succour by a word him that is weary. He wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear as the instructed. <a id="c50_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The Lord Jehovah hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebellious; I turned not away back. <a id="c50_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I gave my back to smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair; I hid not my face from shame and spitting. <a id="c50_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the Lord Jehovah will help me: therefore shall I not be confounded; therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed. <a id="c50_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He is near that justifieth me: who will contend with me? let us stand together; who is mine adverse party? let him draw near unto me. <a id="c50_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, the Lord Jehovah will help me; who is he that shall condemn me? Behold, they all shall grow old as a garment; the moth shall eat them up.</p>

<p><a id="c50_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is among you that feareth Jehovah, that hearkeneth to the voice of his servant? he that walketh in darkness, and hath no light, --let him confide in the name of Jehovah, and stay himself upon his God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c50_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that compass yourselves about with sparks: walk in the light of your fire, and among the sparks that ye have kindled. This shall ye have of my hand: ye shall lie down in sorrow.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>