<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Egypt. Behold, Jehovah rideth upon a swift cloud, and cometh to Egypt; and the idols of Egypt are moved at his presence, and the heart of Egypt melteth in the midst of it. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will incite the Egyptians against the Egyptians; and they shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his neighbour; city against city, kingdom against kingdom. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst of it, and I will destroy the counsel thereof; and they shall seek unto the idols and unto the conjurers, and unto the necromancers, and unto the soothsayers. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel lord, and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be wasted and dried up; <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the rivers shall stink, and the streams of Egypt shall be diminished and drain away: the reeds and sedges shall wither. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The meadows by the Nile, on the banks of the Nile, and everything sown by the Nile, shall be dried up, be driven away, and be no more. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the fishers shall mourn, and all they that cast fish-hook into the Nile shall lament, and they that spread net upon the waters shall languish. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they that work in fine flax, and they that weave white stuffs shall be ashamed. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And her pillars shall be broken in pieces, and all workers for hire shall be sad of soul. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They are but fools, the princes of Zoan, the wise counsellors of Pharaoh: their counsel is become senseless. How say ye unto Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings? <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Where are they then, thy wise men? Let them now tell thee, and let them make known what Jehovah of hosts hath purposed upon Egypt. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The princes of Zoan are become foolish, the princes of Noph are deceived; and the corner-stones of its tribes have caused Egypt to err. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah hath mingled a spirit of perverseness in the midst thereof; and they have caused Egypt to err in every work thereof, as a drunkard staggereth in his vomit. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which the head or tail, palm-branch or rush, may do. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> In that day shall Egypt be like unto women; and it shall tremble and fear because of the shaking of the hand of Jehovah of hosts, which he shaketh over it. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the land of Judah shall be a dismay unto Egypt: every one that thinketh of it shall be afraid for himself, because of the counsel of Jehovah of hosts, which he hath purposed against it.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day shall there be five cities in the land of Egypt speaking the language of Canaan, and swearing by Jehovah of hosts: one shall be called, The city of Heres. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In that day shall there be an altar to Jehovah in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to Jehovah: <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and it shall be for a sign and for a witness to Jehovah of hosts in the land of Egypt; for they shall cry unto Jehovah because of the oppressors, and he will send them a saviour and defender, who shall deliver them. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Jehovah shall be known to the Egyptians, and the Egyptians shall know Jehovah in that day, and shall serve with sacrifice and oblation; and they shall vow a vow unto Jehovah, and perform it. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jehovah will smite Egypt; he will smite and heal: and they shall return to Jehovah, and he will be entreated of them, and will heal them. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria; and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria; and Egypt shall serve with Assyria. <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth; <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> whom Jehovah of hosts will bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance!</p>

</body>
</html>