<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 49</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 49</h2>

<p><a id="c49_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Listen, O isles, unto me; and hearken, ye peoples from afar. Jehovah hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother hath he made mention of my name. <a id="c49_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword, he hath concealed me under the shadow of his hand, and he hath made me a polished shaft: in his quiver hath he hidden me. <a id="c49_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said unto me, Thou art my servant, Israel, in whom I will glorify myself. <a id="c49_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> --And I said, I have laboured in vain, I have spent my strength for nought and in vain; nevertheless my judgment is with Jehovah, and my work with my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c49_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now, saith Jehovah, that formed me from the womb to be his servant, that I should bring Jacob again to him; (though Israel be not gathered, yet shall I be glorified in the eyes of Jehovah, and my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> shall be my strength;) <a id="c49_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> --and he saith, It is a small thing that thou shouldest be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of Israel; I have even given thee for a light of the nations, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus saith Jehovah, the Redeemer of Israel, his Holy One, to him whom man despiseth, to him whom the nation abhorreth, to the servant of rulers: Kings shall see and arise, princes, and they shall worship, because of Jehovah who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who hath chosen thee. <a id="c49_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thus saith Jehovah: In a time of acceptance have I answered thee, and in the day of salvation have I helped thee; and I will preserve thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, to establish the land, to cause to inherit the desolate heritages; <a id="c49_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> saying to the prisoners, Go forth; to them that are in darkness, Shew yourselves. They shall feed in the ways, and their pasture shall be on all bare hills. <a id="c49_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall the heat nor sun smite them; for he that hath mercy on them will lead them, and by the springs of water will he guide them. <a id="c49_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways shall be raised up. <a id="c49_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, these shall come from afar; and behold, these from the north and from the west; and these from the land of Sinim.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Shout, ye heavens; and be joyful, thou earth; and break forth into singing, ye mountains: for Jehovah hath comforted his people, and will have mercy upon his afflicted ones. <a id="c49_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But Zion said, Jehovah hath forsaken me, and the Lord hath forgotten me. <a id="c49_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? Even these forget, but I will not forget thee. <a id="c49_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Lo, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy walls are continually before me. <a id="c49_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thy sons shall make haste; thy destroyers and they that laid thee waste shall go forth from thee.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Lift up thine eyes round about and behold: they all gather themselves together, they come to thee. As I live, saith Jehovah, thou shalt indeed clothe thee with them all as with an ornament, and bind them on as a bride doth. <a id="c49_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For in thy waste and thy desolate places, and thy destroyed land, thou shalt even now be too straitened by reason of the inhabitants, and they that swallowed thee up shall be far away. <a id="c49_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The children of thy bereavement shall yet say in thine ears, The place is too narrow for me: make room for me, that I may dwell. <a id="c49_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And thou shalt say in thy heart, Who hath borne me these, seeing I had lost my children and was desolate, an exile, and driven about? and who hath brought up these? behold, I was left alone; these, where were they? <a id="c49_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations, and set up my banner to the peoples; and they shall bring thy sons in their bosom, and thy daughters shall be carried upon the shoulder. <a id="c49_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And kings shall be thy nursing-fathers, and their princesses thy nursing-mothers: they shall bow down to thee with the face toward the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet. And thou shalt know that I am Jehovah; for they shall not be ashamed who wait on me.</p>

<p><a id="c49_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shall the prey be taken from the mighty? and shall he that is rightfully captive be delivered? <a id="c49_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For thus saith Jehovah: Even the captive of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered; and I will strive with him that striveth with thee, and I will save thy children. <a id="c49_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh; and they shall be drunken with their own blood, as with new wine. And all flesh shall know that I, Jehovah, am thy Saviour and thy Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>