<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Send the lamb of the ruler of the land from the rock to the wilderness, --unto the mount of the daughter of Zion. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it shall be that as a wandering bird, as a scattered nest, so shall the daughters of Moab be at the fords of the Arnon. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Bring in counsel, execute justice; make thy shadow as the night in the midst of noonday; hide the outcasts, discover not the fugitive. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let mine outcasts dwell with thee, Moab; be thou a covert to them from the face of the waster. For the extortioner is at an end, the wasting hath ceased, the oppressors are consumed out of the land. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And a throne shall be established in mercy: and in the tent of David there shall sit upon it, in truth, one judging and seeking justice and hastening righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We have heard of the arrogance of Moab, -- he is very proud, --of his pride, and his arrogance, and his wrath: his pratings are vain. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore shall Moab howl for Moab; every one of them shall howl. For the foundations of Kirhareseth shall ye mourn, verily afflicted. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the fields of Heshbon languish, the vine of Sibmah; the lords of the nations have broken down its choice plants: they reached unto Jaazer, they wandered through the wilderness; its shoots stretched out, they went beyond the sea. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore I will weep with the weeping of Jaazer for the vine of Sibmah; with my tears will I water thee, Heshbon, and Elealeh, for a cry is fallen upon thy summer fruits and upon thy harvest. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And joy and gladness is taken away out of the fruitful field; and in the vineyards there is no singing, neither is there shouting: the treaders tread out no wine in the presses, I have made the cry of the winepress to cease. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore my bowels sound like a harp for Moab, and mine inward parts for Kirheres. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it shall come to pass, when Moab shall appear, shall weary himself on the high place, and enter into his sanctuary to pray, that he shall not prevail. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the word which Jehovah hath spoken from of old concerning Moab. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And now Jehovah speaketh saying, Within three years, as the years of a hired servant, and the glory of Moab shall be brought to nothing, with all that great multitude; and the remnant shall be small, few, of no account.</p>

</body>
</html>