<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the desert of the sea. As whirlwinds in the south pass through, so it cometh from the desert, from a terrible land. <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> A grievous vision is declared unto me: the treacherous dealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth. Go up, Elam! besiege, Media! All the sighing thereof have I made to cease. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore are my loins filled with pain; anguish hath taken hold upon me, as the anguish of a woman in travail: I am bowed down so as not to hear, I am dismayed so as not to see. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My heart panteth, horror affrighteth me: the night of my pleasure hath he turned into trembling unto me. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Prepare the table, appoint the watch; eat, drink: arise, ye princes, anoint the shield. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus hath the Lord said unto me: Go, set a watchman, let him declare what he seeth. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he saw chariots, horsemen by pairs, a chariot with asses, a chariot with camels; and he hearkened diligently with much heed. <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he cried as a lion, Lord, I stand continually upon the watchtower in the daytime, and I am set in my ward whole nights. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> --And behold, there cometh a chariot of men; horsemen by pairs. And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and all the graven images of her gods he hath broken unto the ground. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> O my threshing, and the corn of my floor! What I have heard of Jehovah of hosts, the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel, have I declared unto you.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will inquire, inquire; return, come.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The burden against Arabia. In the forest of Arabia shall ye lodge, ye caravans of Dedanites. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Bring ye water to meet the thirsty! The inhabitants of the land of Tema come forth with their bread for him that fleeth. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For they flee from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For thus hath the Lord said unto me: Within a year, according to the years of a hired servant, and all the glory of Kedar shall fail; <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and the residue of the number of the archers, the mighty men of the sons of Kedar, shall be diminished: for Jehovah, the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of Israel, hath spoken.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>