<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Damascus. Behold, Damascus is taken away from being a city, and it shall be a ruinous heap. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The cities of Aroer are forsaken: they shall be for flocks; and they shall lie down and there shall be none to make them afraid. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The fortress also shall cease from Ephraim, and the kingdom from Damascus, and the remnant of Syria: they shall be as the glory of the children of Israel, saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And in that day it shall come to pass, that the glory of Jacob shall be made thin, and the fatness of his flesh shall become lean. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it shall be as when the reaper gathereth the corn, and reapeth the ears with his arm; yea, it shall be as he that gathereth ears in the valley of Rephaim.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And a gleaning shall be left in it, as at the shaking of an olive-tree: two, three berries above, in the tree-top; four, five in its fruitful boughs, saith Jehovah, the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In that day shall man look to his Maker, and his eyes shall have regard to the Holy One of Israel. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he will not look to the altars, the work of his hands, nor have regard to what his fingers have made, neither the Asherahs nor the sun-images.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In that day shall his strong cities be as the forsaken tract in the woodland, and the mountain-top which they forsook before the children of Israel; and there shall be desolation. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For thou hast forgotten the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> of thy salvation, and hast not been mindful of the rock of thy strength; therefore shalt thou plant pleasant plantations, and shalt set them with foreign slips: <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> in the day of thy planting wilt thou make them to grow, and on the morrow wilt thou make thy seed to flourish; but the harvest will flee in the day of taking possession, and the sorrow will be incurable.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ha! a tumult of many peoples! they make a noise as the noise of the seas; --and the rushing of nations! they rush as the rushing of mighty waters. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The nations rush as the rushing of many waters; but he will rebuke them, and they shall flee far away, and shall be chased as the chaff of the mountains before the wind, and like a whirling of dust before the whirlwind: <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> behold, at eventide, trouble; before the morning they are not. This is the portion of them that spoil us, and the lot of them that rob us.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>