<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to thee that spoilest, and thou wast not spoiled; and that dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! When thou shalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be spoiled; when thou shalt make an end of dealing treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee. <a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be their arm every morning, yea, our salvation in the time of trouble. <a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> At the noise of the tumult the peoples fled; at the lifting up of thyself the nations were scattered. <a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And your spoil shall be gathered like the gathering of the caterpillar: as the running of locusts shall they run upon it. <a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jehovah is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion with justice and righteousness; <a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and he shall be the stability of thy times, the riches of salvation, wisdom and knowledge: the fear of Jehovah shall be your treasure. <a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, their valiant ones cry without; the messengers of peace weep bitterly. <a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The highways are desolate, the wayfaring man ceaseth. He hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth no man. <a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The land mourneth, it languisheth; Lebanon is ashamed, is withered; the Sharon is become as a desert, and Bashan and Carmel are stripped. <a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now will I arise, saith Jehovah; now will I be exalted, now will I lift up myself. <a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ye shall conceive dry grass, ye shall bring forth stubble: your breath shall devour you as fire. <a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the peoples shall be as burnings of lime, as thorns cut up shall they be burned in the fire.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and ye that are near, acknowledge my might. <a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling hath surprised the hypocrites: Who among us shall dwell with the consuming fire? who among us shall dwell with everlasting flames? <a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> --He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from taking hold of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil: <a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> he shall dwell on high, the fortresses of the rocks shall be his high retreat; bread shall be given him, his water shall be sure. <a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thine eyes shall see the King in his beauty; they shall behold the land that is far off. <a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thy heart shall meditate on terror: Where is the scribe? where is the receiver? where is he that counted the towers? <a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou shalt no more see the fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst comprehend, of a stammering tongue that cannot be understood. <a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tent that shall not be removed, the stakes whereof shall never be pulled up, neither shall any of its cords be broken; <a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but there Jehovah is unto us glorious, --a place of rivers, of broad streams: no galley with oars shall go there, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby. <a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For Jehovah is our judge, Jehovah, our lawgiver, Jehovah, our king: he will save us. <a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thy tacklings are loosed; they strengthen not the socket of their mast, they cannot spread the sail: then is the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame take the prey. <a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.</p>

</body>
</html>