<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 62</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 62</h2>

<p><a id="c62_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For Zion's sake will I not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not be still, until her righteousness go forth as brightness, and her salvation as a torch that burneth. <a id="c62_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the nations shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thy glory; and thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of Jehovah will name. <a id="c62_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou shalt be a crown of beauty in the hand of Jehovah, and a royal diadem in the hand of thy God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c62_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thou shalt no more be termed, Forsaken; neither shall thy land any more be termed, Desolate: but thou shalt be called, My delight is in her, and thy land, Married; for Jehovah delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married. <a id="c62_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For as a young man marrieth a virgin, shall thy sons marry thee; and with the joy of the bridegroom over the bride, shall thy God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> rejoice over thee.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have set watchmen upon thy walls, Jerusalem; all the day and all the night they shall never hold their peace: ye that put Jehovah in remembrance, keep not silence, <a id="c62_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and give him no rest, till he establish, and till he make Jerusalem a praise in the earth. <a id="c62_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehovah hath sworn by his right hand and by the arm of his strength, I will indeed no more give thy corn to be food for thine enemies; and the sons of the alien shall not drink thy new wine, for which thou hast laboured; <a id="c62_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for they that have garnered it shall eat it, and praise Jehovah; and they that have gathered it shall drink it in the courts of my holiness.</p>

<p><a id="c62_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Go through, go through the gates; prepare the way of the people; cast up, cast up the highway; gather out the stones; lift up a banner for the peoples. <a id="c62_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, Jehovah hath proclaimed unto the end of the earth, Say ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompence before him. <a id="c62_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they shall call them, The holy people, The redeemed of Jehovah; and thou shalt be called, The sought out, The city not forsaken.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>