<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jehovah said to me, Take thee a great tablet, and write thereon with a man's style, concerning Maher-shalal-hash-baz. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I took unto me to witness, sure witnesses, Urijah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I came near to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son; and Jehovah said unto me, Call his name, Maher-shalal-hash-baz. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For before the lad knoweth to cry, My father! and, My mother! the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria shall be taken away before the king of Assyria. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jehovah spoke again to me, saying, <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Forasmuch as this people refuseth the waters of Shiloah which flow softly, and rejoiceth in Rezin and in the son of Remaliah, <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> therefore behold, the Lord will bring up upon them the waters of the river, strong and many, the king of Assyria and all his glory; and he shall mount up over all his channels, and go over all his banks: <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and he shall pass through Judah; he shall overflow it and go further, he shall reach even to the neck; and the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel!</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Rage, ye peoples, and be broken in pieces! And give ear, all ye distant parts of the earth: Gird yourselves, and be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and be broken in pieces! <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Settle a plan, and it shall come to nought; speak a word, and it shall not stand: for ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> is with us. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For Jehovah spoke thus to me with a strong hand, and he instructed me not to walk in the way of this people, saying, <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ye shall not say, Conspiracy, of everything of which this people saith, Conspiracy; and fear ye not their fear, and be not in dread. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jehovah of hosts, him shall ye sanctify; and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he will be for a sanctuary; and for a stone of stumbling, and for a rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and snared, and taken.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will wait for Jehovah, who hideth his face from the house of Jacob; and I will look for him. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, I and the children that Jehovah hath given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel, from Jehovah of hosts, who dwelleth in mount Zion. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto the necromancers and unto the soothsayers, who chirp and who mutter, say, Shall not a people seek unto their God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> Will they go for the living unto the dead? <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> To the law and the testimony! If they speak not according to this word, for them there is no daybreak. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they shall pass through it, hard pressed and hungry; and it shall come to pass when they are hungry, they will fret themselves, and curse their king and their God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and will gaze upward: <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and they will look to the earth; and behold, trouble and darkness, gloom of anguish; and they shall be driven into thick darkness.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>