<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 43</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 43</h2>

<p><a id="c43_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But now thus saith Jehovah, that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel: Fear not, for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine. <a id="c43_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee; when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. <a id="c43_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I am Jehovah thy God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: I gave Egypt for thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee. <a id="c43_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Since thou wast precious in my sight, thou hast been honourable, and I have loved thee; and I will give men for thee, and peoples for thy life. <a id="c43_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Fear not, for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west; <a id="c43_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Keep not back: bring my sons from afar, and my daughters from the end of the earth, <a id="c43_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> every one that is called by my name, and whom I have created for my glory: I have formed him, yea, I have made him.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears. <a id="c43_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the peoples be assembled: who among them declareth this, or causeth us to hear former things? let them bring forth their witnesses, that they may be justified; or let them hear, and say, It is truth. <a id="c43_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah, and my servant whom I have chosen; that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am HE: before me there was no ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> formed, neither shall there be after me. <a id="c43_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I, I am Jehovah; and besides me there is no saviour. <a id="c43_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It is I that have declared, and have saved, and have shewed, when there was no strange god among you; and ye are my witnesses, saith Jehovah, that I am ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a>  <a id="c43_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yea, since the day was, I am HE, and there is none that delivereth out of my hand: I will work, and who shall hinder it?</p>

<p><a id="c43_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thus saith Jehovah, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and have brought all of them down as fugitives, even the Chaldeans, whose cry is in the ships. <a id="c43_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I am Jehovah, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King. <a id="c43_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus saith Jehovah, who maketh a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters, <a id="c43_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> who bringeth forth chariot and horse, army and power--they lie down together, they shall not rise; they are extinct, they are quenched as tow: <a id="c43_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> --Remember not the former things, neither consider the ancient things: <a id="c43_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> behold, I do a new thing; now it shall spring forth: shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, rivers in the waste. <a id="c43_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The beast of the field shall glorify me, the jackals and the ostriches; for I will give waters in the wilderness, rivers in the waste, to give drink to my people, my chosen. <a id="c43_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> This people have I formed for myself: they shall shew forth my praise.</p>

<p><a id="c43_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> --But thou hast not called upon me, Jacob; for thou hast been weary of me, O Israel: <a id="c43_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> thou hast not brought me the small cattle of thy burnt-offerings, neither hast thou glorified me with thy sacrifices. I have not caused thee to toil with an oblation, nor wearied thee with incense. <a id="c43_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices; but thou hast made me to toil with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities. <a id="c43_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> --I, I am He that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake, and I will not remember thy sins. <a id="c43_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Put me in remembrance, let us plead together; rehearse thine own cause, that thou mayest be justified. <a id="c43_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thy first father hath sinned, and thy mediators have rebelled against me. <a id="c43_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And I have profaned the princes of the sanctuary, and have given Jacob to the ban, and Israel to reproaches.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>