<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 46</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 46</h2>

<p><a id="c46_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Bel is bowed down, Nebo bendeth; their idols are upon the beasts, and upon the cattle: the things ye carried are laid on, a burden to the weary beast. <a id="c46_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They bend, they are bowed down together; they could not deliver the burden, and themselves are gone into captivity. <a id="c46_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Hearken unto me, house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the house of Israel, ye who have been borne from the belly, who have been carried from the womb: <a id="c46_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Even to old age, I am HE, and unto hoary hairs I will carry you: It is I that have made, and I will bear, and I will carry, and will deliver.</p>

<p><a id="c46_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> To whom will ye liken me and make me equal, or compare me, that we may be like? <a id="c46_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> --They lavish gold out of the bag, and weigh silver in the balance; they hire a goldsmith, and he maketh it a god<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> they fall down, yea, they worship. <a id="c46_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They bear him on the shoulder, they carry him, and set him in his place; there he standeth, he doth not remove from his place: yea, one crieth unto him, and he answereth not; he saveth him not out of his trouble. <a id="c46_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remember this, and shew yourselves men; call it to mind, ye transgressors. <a id="c46_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Remember the former things of old; for I am ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and there is none else; I am God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> and there is none like me; <a id="c46_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times the things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure; <a id="c46_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> calling a bird of prey from the east, the man of my counsel from a far country. Yea, I have spoken, I will also bring it to pass; I have purposed it, I will also do it. <a id="c46_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Hearken unto me, ye stout-hearted, that are far from righteousness: <a id="c46_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I bring near my righteousness; it shall not be far off, and my salvation shall not delay; and I will give salvation in Zion, and unto Israel my glory.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: el</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>