<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 64</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 64</h2>

<p><a id="c64_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh, that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that thou wouldest come down, --that the mountains might flow down at thy presence, <a id="c64_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> --as fire kindleth brushwood, as the fire causeth water to boil, to make thy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations might tremble at thy presence! <a id="c64_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When thou didst terrible things which we looked not for, thou camest down, and the mountains flowed down at thy presence. <a id="c64_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Never have men heard, nor perceived by the ear, nor hath eye seen a God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> beside thee, who acteth for him that waiteth for him. <a id="c64_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou meetest him that rejoiceth to do righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways: (behold, thou wast wroth, and we have sinned:) in those is perpetuity, and we shall be saved.</p>

<p><a id="c64_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And we are all become as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags; and we all fade as a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, have carried us away; <a id="c64_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and there is none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee; for thou hast hidden thy face from us, and hast caused us to melt away through our iniquities. <a id="c64_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And now, Jehovah, thou art our Father; we are the clay, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand. <a id="c64_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be not wroth very sore, O Jehovah, neither remember iniquity for ever. Behold, see, we beseech thee, we are all thy people. <a id="c64_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thy holy cities are become a wilderness, Zion is a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation. <a id="c64_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praised thee, is burnt up with fire, and all our precious things are laid waste. <a id="c64_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wilt thou restrain thyself in presence of these things, Jehovah? Wilt thou hold thy peace, and afflict us very sore?</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>