<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish! for it is laid waste, so that there is no house, none entering in. From the land of Chittim it is revealed to them. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Be still, ye inhabitants of the isle! The merchants of Sidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished thee. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And on great waters, the seed of Shihor, the harvest of the Nile, was her revenue; and she was the market of the nations. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Be thou ashamed, Sidon, for the sea hath spoken, the strength of the sea, saying, I have not travailed nor brought forth, neither have I nourished young men nor brought up virgins. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> --When the report came into Egypt, they were sorely pained at the news of Tyre. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Pass over to Tarshish; howl, ye inhabitants of the coast! <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days? Her feet shall carry her afar off to sojourn. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who hath purposed this against Tyre, the distributor of crowns, whose merchants were princes, whose dealers were the honourable of the earth? <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jehovah of hosts hath purposed it, to profane the pride of all glory, to bring to nought all the honourable of the earth. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Overflow thy land like the Nile, daughter of Tarshish: there is no more restraint. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He hath stretched out his hand over the sea, he shaketh the kingdoms. Jehovah hath given a commandment concerning Canaan, to destroy the strongholds thereof, <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and hath said, Thou shalt no more exult, thou oppressed virgin, daughter of Sidon: get thee up, pass over to Chittim; even there shalt thou have no rest. <a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold the land of the Chaldeans: this people did not exist; the Assyrian founded it for the dwellers in the desert: they set up their towers, they destroyed the palaces thereof; he brought it to ruin. <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Howl, ships of Tarshish! for your fortress is laid waste.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, that Tyre shall be forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king. At the end of seventy years it shall be for Tyre as the harlot's song. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Take a harp, go about the city, thou forgotten harlot! Make sweet melody, sing many songs, that thou mayest be remembered. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it shall come to pass at the end of seventy years, that Jehovah will visit Tyre; and she will return to her hire, and will commit fornication with all the kingdoms of the earth upon the face of the ground. <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And her merchandise and her hire shall be holy to Jehovah: it shall not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise shall be for them that dwell before Jehovah, to eat and be sufficed, and for excellent clothing.</p>

</body>
</html>