<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For Jehovah will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose Israel, and set them in rest in their own land; and the stranger shall be united to them, and they shall be joined to the house of Jacob. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the peoples shall take them and bring them to their place; and the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of Jehovah for servants and handmaids; and they shall take them captive whose captives they were, and they shall rule over their oppressors. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And it shall come to pass in the day that Jehovah shall give thee rest from thy sorrow and from thy trouble and from the hard bondage wherein thou wast made to serve,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> that thou shalt take up this proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, How hath the oppressor ceased, --the exactress of gold ceased! <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Jehovah hath broken the staff of the wicked, the sceptre of the rulers. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He that smote the peoples in wrath with a relentless stroke, he that ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted unsparingly. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The whole earth is at rest, is quiet: they break forth into singing. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Even the cypresses rejoice at thee, the cedars of Lebanon, saying, Since thou art laid down, no feller is come up against us. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Sheol from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming, stirring up the dead for thee, all the he-goats of the earth; making to rise from their thrones all the kings of the nations. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All of them shall answer and say unto thee, Art thou also become powerless as we; art thou become like unto us! <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> --Thy pomp is brought down to Sheol, the noise of thy lyres: the maggot is spread under thee, and worms cover thee. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> How art thou fallen from heaven, Lucifer, son of the morning! Thou art cut down to the ground, that didst prostrate the nations! <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And thou that didst say in thy heart, I will ascend into the heavens, I will exalt my throne above the stars of ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and I will sit upon the mount of assembly, in the recesses of the north; <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will be like the Most High: <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> none the less art thou brought down to Sheol, to the recesses of the pit. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee; they shall consider thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that shook kingdoms; <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> that made the world as a wilderness, and overthrew the cities thereof; that dismissed not his prisoners homewards? <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> --All the kings of the nations, all of them, lie in glory, every one in his own house; <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch, covered with the slain--those thrust through with the sword, that go down to the stones of the pit: like a carcase trodden under foot. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial; for thou hast destroyed thy land, hast slain thy people. Of the seed of evildoers no mention shall be made for ever. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Prepare ye slaughter for his children, because of the iniquity of their fathers; that they may not rise up and possess the earth, nor fill the face of the world with cities. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I will rise up against them, saith Jehovah of hosts, and cut off from Babylon name and remnant, and scion and descendant, saith Jehovah. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will make it a possession for the bittern, and pools of water; and I will sweep it with the besom of destruction, saith Jehovah of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Jehovah of hosts hath sworn saying, Assuredly as I have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, it shall stand: <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> to break the Assyrian in my land; and upon my mountains will I tread him under foot; and his yoke shall depart from off them, and his burden depart from off their shoulders. <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> This is the counsel which is purposed concerning the whole earth; and this is the hand which is stretched out upon all the nations. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For Jehovah of hosts hath purposed, and who shall frustrate it? And his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back? <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the year of the death of king Ahaz was this burden: <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Rejoice not thou, Philistia, all of thee, because the rod that smote thee is broken; for out of the serpent's root shall come forth a viper, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall lie down in safety; but I will kill thy root with famine, and thy remnant shall be slain. <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Howl, O gate! cry, O city! thou, Philistia, art wholly dissolved; for there cometh from the north a smoke, and none remaineth apart in his gatherings of troops. <a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And what shall be answered to the messengers of the nation? That Jehovah hath founded Zion, and the afflicted of his people find refuge in it.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>