<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For behold, the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, will take away from Jerusalem and from Judah stay and staff, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> the mighty man and the man of war, the judge and the prophet, and the diviner and the elder, <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the captain of fifty, and the honourable man, and the counsellor, and the clever among artificers, and the one versed in enchantments. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will appoint youths as their princes, and children shall rule over them. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the people shall be oppressed one by the other, and each by his neighbour; the child will be insolent against the elder, and the base against the honourable. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> When a man shall take hold of his brother, in his father's house, and shall say: Thou hast clothing; be our chief, and let this ruin be under thy hand; <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> he will lift up his hand in that day, saying, I cannot be a healer, and in my house there is neither bread nor clothing; ye shall not make me a chief of the people. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For Jerusalem stumbleth and Judah falleth, because their tongue and their doings are against Jehovah, to provoke the eyes of his glory.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The look of their face doth witness against them, and they declare their sin as Sodom: they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! for they have brought evil upon themselves. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say ye of the righteous that it shall be well with him, for they shall eat the fruit of their doings. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Woe unto the wicked! it shall be ill with him, because the desert of his hands shall be rendered unto him. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. My people! they that guide thee mislead thee, and destroy the way of thy paths. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jehovah setteth himself to plead, and standeth to judge the peoples. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jehovah will enter into judgment with the elders of his people and their princes, saying: It is ye that have eaten up the vineyard: the spoil of the poor is in your houses. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What mean ye that ye crush my people, and grind the faces of the afflicted? saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jehovah said, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched-out neck and wanton eyes, and go along mincing, and making a tinkling with their feet; <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> therefore the Lord will make bald the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and Jehovah will lay bare their secret parts. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In that day the Lord will take away the ornament of anklets, and the little suns and crescents, <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> the pearl-drops, and the bracelets, and the veils, <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> the head-dresses, and the stepping chains, and the girdles, and the scent-boxes, and the amulets; <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> the finger-rings, and the nose-rings; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> the festival-robes, and the tunics, and the mantles, and the wallets; <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> the mirrors, and the fine linen bodices, and the turbans, and the flowing veils. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And it shall come to pass, instead of perfume there shall be rottenness; and instead of a girdle, a rope; and instead of well-set hair, baldness; and instead of a robe of display, a girding of sackcloth; brand instead of beauty. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the fight; <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and her gates shall lament and mourn; and, stripped, she shall sit upon the ground.</p>

</body>
</html>