<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 57</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 57</h2>

<p><a id="c57_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart; and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from before the evil. <a id="c57_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He entereth into peace: they rest in their beds, each one that hath walked in his uprightness.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But draw near hither, ye sons of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the harlot. <a id="c57_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Against whom do ye sport yourselves? Against whom do ye make a wide mouth, and draw out the tongue? Are ye not children of transgression, a seed of falsehood, <a id="c57_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> inflaming yourselves with idols under every green tree, slaying the children in the valleys under the clefts of the rocks? <a id="c57_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Among the smooth stones of the torrent is thy portion; they, they are thy lot: even to them hast thou poured out a drink-offering, thou hast offered an oblation. Shall I be comforted myself as to these things? <a id="c57_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Upon a lofty and high mountain hast thou set thy bed: even thither didst thou go up to offer sacrifice. <a id="c57_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behind the doors also and the posts hast thou set up thy remembrance: for apart from me, thou hast uncovered thyself, and art gone up; thou hast enlarged thy bed, and hast made agreement with them; thou lovedst their bed, thou sawest their nakedness. <a id="c57_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou wentest to the king with ointment, and didst multiply thy perfumes, and didst send thy messengers afar off, and didst debase thyself unto Sheol. <a id="c57_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thou wast wearied by the multitude of thy ways; but thou saidst not, It is of no avail. Thou didst find a quickening of thy strength; therefore thou wast not sick of it. <a id="c57_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And of whom hast thou been afraid or feared, that thou hast lied, and hast not remembered me, nor taken it to heart? Have not I even of long time held my peace, and thou fearest me not? <a id="c57_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I will declare thy righteousness, and thy works; and they shall not profit thee.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When thou criest, let them that are gathered by thee deliver thee! But a wind shall carry them all away, a breath shall take them; but he that putteth his trust in me shall inherit the land, and possess my holy mountain. <a id="c57_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it shall be said, Cast up, cast up, prepare the way, take up the stumbling-blocks out of the way of my people. <a id="c57_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, and whose name is Holy: I dwell in the high and holy place, and with him that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones. <a id="c57_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I will not contend for ever, neither will I be always wroth; for the spirit would fail before me, and the souls which I have made.</p>

<p><a id="c57_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and smote him; I hid me, and was wroth, and he went on backslidingly in the way of his heart. <a id="c57_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I have seen his ways, and will heal him; and I will lead him, and will restore comforts unto him and to those of his that mourn. <a id="c57_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I create the fruit of the lips: peace, peace to him that is afar off, and to him that is nigh, saith Jehovah; and I will heal him. <a id="c57_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the wicked are like the troubled sea, which cannot rest, and whose waters cast up mire and dirt. <a id="c57_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There is no peace, saith my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> to the wicked.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>