<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 44</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 44</h2>

<p><a id="c44_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And now hear, Jacob, my servant, and Israel, whom I have chosen: <a id="c44_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> thus saith Jehovah, that made thee, and formed thee from the womb, who helpeth thee, Fear not, Jacob, my servant, and thou, Jeshurun, whom I have chosen. <a id="c44_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring. <a id="c44_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they shall spring up among the grass, as willows by the water-courses. <a id="c44_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> One shall say, I am Jehovah's; and another shall call himself by the name of Jacob; and another shall write with his hand: I am Jehovah's, and surname himself by the name of Israel. <a id="c44_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus saith Jehovah, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, Jehovah of hosts: I am the first, and I am the last, and beside me there is no God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c44_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I appointed the ancient people? And the coming things, and those that shall happen, let them declare unto them. <a id="c44_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Fear not, neither be afraid. Have I not caused thee to hear from that time, and have declared it? and ye are my witnesses. Is there a +God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> beside me? yea, there is no Rock: I know not any.</p>

<p><a id="c44_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They that form a graven image are all of them vanity, and their delectable things are of no profit; and they are their own witnesses: they see not, nor know; --that they may be ashamed. <a id="c44_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who hath formed a god<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote3">*</a> or molten a graven image that is profitable for nothing? <a id="c44_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Behold, all his fellows shall be ashamed; and the workmen are but men. Let them all be gathered together, let them stand up: they shall fear, they shall be ashamed together. <a id="c44_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The iron-smith hath a chisel, and he worketh in the coals, and he fashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with his strong arm; --but he is hungry, and his strength faileth; he hath not drunk water, and he is faint. <a id="c44_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The worker in wood stretcheth out a line; he marketh it out with red chalk; he formeth it with sharp tools, and he marketh it out with the compass, and maketh it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of man: that it may remain in the house. <a id="c44_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When he heweth him down cedars, he taketh also a holm-oak and a terebinth--he chooseth for himself among the trees of the forest: he planteth a pine, and the rain maketh it grow. <a id="c44_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it shall be for a man to burn, and he taketh thereof, and warmeth himself; he kindleth it also, and baketh bread; he maketh also a god<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote4">*</a> and worshippeth it; he maketh it a graven image, and falleth down thereto. <a id="c44_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He burneth part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eateth flesh, he roasteth roast, and is satisfied; yea, he is warm, and saith, Aha, I am become warm, I have seen the fire. <a id="c44_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And with the remainder thereof he maketh a god<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote5">*</a> his graven image; he falleth down unto it, and worshippeth it, and prayeth unto it, and saith, Deliver me, for thou art my god<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote6">*</a>  <a id="c44_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They have no knowledge, and understand not; for he hath plastered their eyes, that they may not see; and their hearts, that they may not understand. <a id="c44_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And none taketh it to heart, neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire, and have also baked bread upon the coals thereof, I have roasted flesh, and eaten it, and with the rest thereof shall I make an abomination? shall I bow down to a block of wood? <a id="c44_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He feedeth on ashes; a deceived heart hath turned him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand?</p>

<p><a id="c44_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel, for thou art my servant; I have formed thee: thou art my servant, Israel; thou shalt not be forgotten of me. <a id="c44_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee. <a id="c44_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Sing, ye heavens; for Jehovah hath done it: shout, ye lower parts of the earth; break forth into singing, ye mountains, the forest, and every tree therein! For Jehovah hath redeemed Jacob, and glorified himself in Israel. <a id="c44_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Thus saith Jehovah, thy Redeemer, and he that formed thee from the womb: I am Jehovah, the maker of all things; who alone stretched out the heavens, who did spread forth the earth by myself; <a id="c44_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> --he that frustrateth the tokens of the liars, and maketh diviners mad; that turneth wise men backward, and maketh their knowledge foolish; <a id="c44_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> that confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the counsel of his messengers; that saith to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be inhabited; and to the cities of Judah, Ye shall be built up, and I will raise up their ruins; <a id="c44_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> that saith to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up thy rivers; <a id="c44_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> that saith of Cyrus, He is my shepherd, and he shall perform all my pleasure; even saying to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be built; and to the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote3"><p>Hebrew: el</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote4"><p>Hebrew: el</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote5"><p>Hebrew: el</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote6"><p>Hebrew: el</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>