<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The vision of Isaiah the son of Amos, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, kings of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, ye heavens, and give ear, thou earth! for Jehovah hath spoken: I have nourished and brought up children; and they have rebelled against me. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib; Israel doth not know, my people hath no intelligence. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that corrupt themselves! They have forsaken Jehovah; they have despised the Holy One of Israel; they are turned away backward. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why should ye be smitten any more? ye will revolt more and more: the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness in him; wounds, and weals, and open sores: they have not been dressed, nor bound up, nor mollified with oil. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Your country is desolate; your cities are burned with fire; your land, strangers eat it up in your presence, and it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the daughter of Zion is left, as a booth in a vineyard, as a night-lodge in a cucumber-garden, as a besieged city. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Unless Jehovah of hosts had left us a very small residue, we should have been as Sodom, we should have been like unto Gomorrah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Hear the word of Jehovah, rulers of Sodom; give ear unto the law of our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> people of Gomorrah! <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me? saith Jehovah. I am sated with burnt-offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and in the blood of bullocks, and of lambs, and of he-goats I take no pleasure. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this from your hand--to tread my courts? <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Bring no more vain oblations! Incense is an abomination unto me, --new moon and sabbath, the calling of convocations--wickedness and the solemn meeting I cannot bear. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Your new moons and your set feasts my soul hateth: they are a burden to me; I am wearied of bearing them. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you; yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear: your hands are full of blood.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; --cease to do evil, <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> learn to do well: seek judgment, gladden the oppressed, do justice to the fatherless, plead for the widow. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Come now, let us reason together, saith Jehovah: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If ye be willing and hearken, ye shall eat the good of the land; <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> but if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of Jehovah hath spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> How is the faithful city become a harlot! It was full of judgment; righteousness used to lodge in it, but now murderers. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thy silver is become dross, thy wine is mixed with water: <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> thy princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves; every one loveth presents, and hunteth after rewards; they judge not the fatherless, and the cause of the widow cometh not unto them. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore saith the Lord, Jehovah of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel: Ah! I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge me of mine enemies. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And I will turn my hand upon thee, and will thoroughly purge away thy dross, and take away all thine alloy; <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and I will restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning. Afterwards thou shalt be called, Town of righteousness, Faithful city. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and they that return of her with righteousness. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But the ruin of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together; and they that forsake Jehovah shall be consumed. <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For they shall be ashamed of the terebinths that ye have desired, and ye shall blush for the gardens that ye have chosen. <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For ye shall be as a terebinth whose leaf fadeth, and as a garden that hath no water. <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the strong shall be for tow, and his work a spark; and they shall both burn together, and there shall be none to quench them.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>