<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jehovah, thou art my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> I will exalt thee; I will celebrate thy name, for thou hast done wonderful things; counsels of old which are faithfulness and truth. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For thou hast made of the city a heap, of the fortified town a ruin, the palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be built up. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore shall the mighty people glorify thee, the city of terrible nations shall fear thee. <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thou hast been a fortress to the poor, a fortress for the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the heat: for the blast of the terrible ones has been as the storm against a wall. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thou hast subdued the tumult of strangers, as the heat in a dry place; as the heat, by the shadow of a cloud, so the song of the terrible ones is brought low.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And in this mountain will Jehovah of hosts make unto all peoples a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the veil which veileth all the peoples, and the covering that is spread over all the nations. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He will swallow up death in victory. And the Lord Jehovah will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the reproach of his people will he take away from off all the earth: for Jehovah hath spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And it shall be said in that day, Behold, this is our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> we have waited for him, and he will save us: this is Jehovah, we have waited for him; we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For in this mountain shall the hand of Jehovah rest, and Moab shall be trodden down under him, as straw is trodden down in the dunghill; <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and he shall spread forth his hands in the midst of them, as he that swimmeth spreadeth them forth to swim; and he shall bring down their pride together with the plots of their hands. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the fortress of the high defences of thy walls will he bring down, lay low, bring to the ground, into the dust.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>