<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of Moab: For in the night of being laid waste, Ar of Moab is destroyed; for in the night of being laid waste, Kir of Moab is destroyed! <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He is gone up to Bajith, and to Dibon, to the high places, to weep; Moab howleth over Nebo, and over Medeba; on all their heads is baldness, every beard is cut off. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In their streets they are girded with sackcloth; on their roofs, and in their broadways, every one howleth, melted into tears. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Heshbon crieth, and Elealeh: their voice is heard unto Jahaz. Therefore the armed men of Moab cry out: his soul trembleth in him. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My heart crieth out for Moab; their fugitives have fled unto Zoar, unto Eglath-Sheli-shijah: for by the ascent of Luhith, with weeping they go up by it; for in the way of Horonaim they raise up a cry of destruction.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate; for the herbage is withered away, the grass hath failed, there is no green thing. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore the abundance they have gotten, and that which they have laid up, do they carry away to the torrent of the willows. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the cry goeth round about the borders of Moab; the howling thereof unto Eglaim, and the howling thereof unto Beer-elim. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For the waters of Dimon are full of blood, for I will lay yet more upon Dimon: a lion upon them that are escaped of Moab, and upon that which remaineth of the land.</p>

</body>
</html>