<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah: We have a strong city; salvation doth he appoint for walls and bulwarks. <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Open ye the gates, and the righteous nation which keepeth faithfulness shall enter in. <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thou wilt keep in perfect peace the mind stayed on thee, for he confideth in thee. <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Confide ye in Jehovah for ever; for in Jah, Jehovah, is the rock of ages.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For he bringeth down them that dwell on high; the lofty city, he layeth it low, he layeth it low to the ground, he bringeth it even to the dust. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The foot shall tread it down, --the feet of the afflicted, the steps of the poor. <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The way of the just is uprightness: thou, the Upright, dost make the path of the just even. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O Jehovah, have we waited for thee; the desire of our soul is to thy name, and to thy memorial. <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me I seek thee early: for when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If favour be shewn to the wicked, he doth not learn righteousness: in the land of uprightness he dealeth unjustly, and beholdeth not the majesty of Jehovah. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah, thy hand is lifted up, but they do not see: yet they shall see thy jealousy for the people, and be ashamed; yea, the fire which is for thine adversaries shall devour them.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Jehovah, thou wilt ordain peace for us; for thou also hast wrought all our works for us. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jehovah our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> other lords than thee have had dominion over us; by thee only will we make mention of thy name. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They are dead, they shall not live; deceased, they shall not rise: for thou hast visited and destroyed them, and made all memory of them to perish. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou hast increased the nation, Jehovah, thou hast increased the nation: thou art glorified. Thou hadst removed it far unto all the ends of the earth. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jehovah, in trouble they sought thee; they poured out their whispered prayer when thy chastening was upon them. <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> As a woman with child, that draweth near her delivery, is in travail, and crieth out in her pangs; so have we been before thee, Jehovah. <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> We have been with child, we have been in travail, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought the deliverance of the land, neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thy dead shall live, my dead bodies shall arise. Awake and sing in triumph, ye that dwell in dust; for thy dew is the dew of the morning, and the earth shall cast forth the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Come, my people, enter into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee; hide thyself just for a little moment, until the indignation be past. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For behold, Jehovah cometh out of his place to visit the iniquity of the inhabitants of the earth upon them; and the earth shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>