<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Isaiah 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Isaiah 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day Jehovah, with his sore and great and strong sword, will visit leviathan the fleeing serpent, and leviathan the crooked serpent; and he will slay the monster that is in the sea. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In that day there shall be a vineyard of pure wine; sing concerning it: <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I Jehovah keep it, I will water it every moment; lest any harm it, I will keep it night and day. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Fury is not in me. Oh that I had briars and thorns in battle against me! I would march against them, I would burn them together. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or let him take hold of my strength; let him make peace with me: yea, let him make peace with me. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In the future Jacob shall take root; Israel shall blossom and bud, and they shall fill the face of the world with fruit.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hath he smitten him according to the smiting of those that smote him? Is he slain according to the slaughter of those slain by him? <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In measure, when sending her away, didst thou contend with her: he hath taken her away with his rough wind in the day of the east wind. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By this, therefore, shall the iniquity of Jacob be purged; and this is all the fruit of the taking away of his sin: when he shall make all the stones of the altar as chalkstones that are crumbled in pieces, --the Asherahs and the sun-images shall not stand. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation abandoned and forsaken like a wilderness; there shall the calf feed, and there shall he lie down, and consume its boughs. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When its branches are withered they shall be broken off; women shall come and set them on fire. For it is a people of no intelligence; therefore he that made them will not have mercy on them, and he who formed them will shew them no favour. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, that Jehovah shall beat out from the flood of the river unto the torrent of Egypt, and ye shall be gathered one by one, ye children of Israel. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, that the great trumpet shall be blown; and they shall come that were perishing in the land of Assyria, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt, and they shall worship Jehovah in the holy mountain at Jerusalem.</p>

</body>
</html>