<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Oh that my head were waters, and mine eye a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people! <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Oh that I had in the wilderness a traveller's lodging-place, that I might leave my people, and go away from them! For they are all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they bend their tongue, their bow of falsehood, and not for fidelity are they valiant in the land; for they proceed from evil to evil, and they know not me, saith Jehovah. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Take ye heed every one of his friend, and confide not in any brother; for every brother only supplanteth, and every friend goeth about with slander. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they act deceitfully every one with his neighbour, and speak not the truth: they teach their tongue to speak falsehood, they weary themselves with perverse dealing. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thy habitation is in the midst of deceit; through deceit they refuse to know me, saith Jehovah. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Behold, I will melt them, and try them; for how else could I do for the daughter of my people? <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their tongue is a murderous arrow; it speaketh deceit. A man speaketh peaceably to his neighbour with his mouth, but in his heart he layeth his ambush. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Shall I not visit them for these things? saith Jehovah; shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this? <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the mountains will I take up weeping and wailing, and for the pastures of the wilderness, a lamentation; for they are burnt up, so that none passeth through them; and the voice of the cattle is not heard. Both the fowl of the heavens and the beasts are fled; they are gone. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will make Jerusalem heaps, a dwelling-place of jackals; and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation, without inhabitant.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Who is a wise man, that he may understand this? and he to whom the mouth of Jehovah hath spoken, that he may declare it? Why is the land perished, burnt up like a wilderness, so that none passeth through? <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jehovah saith, Because they have forsaken my law which I set before them, and have not hearkened unto my voice, nor walked in it, <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but have walked after the stubbornness of their own heart, and after the Baals, as their fathers taught them; <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> therefore thus saith Jehovah of hosts, the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel, Behold, I will feed this people with wormwood, and give them water of gall to drink, <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and will scatter them among the nations, whom neither they nor their fathers have known; and I will send the sword after them, till I have consumed them. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Consider, and call for the mourning women, that they may come, and send for the skilful women, that they may come; <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and let them make haste, and take up a wailing for us, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids pour forth waters. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, How are we spoiled, sorely put to shame! For we have forsaken the land, for they have cast down our dwellings. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Hear then the word of Jehovah, ye women, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth, and teach your daughters wailing, and each one her companion lamentation. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For death is come up through our windows, is entered into our palaces, to cut off the children from the street, the young men from the broadways. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Speak, Thus saith Jehovah: Yea, the carcases of men shall fall as dung upon the open field, and as the handful after the reaper, and there shall be none to gather.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thus saith Jehovah: Let not the wise glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty glory in his might; let not the rich glory in his riches: <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am Jehovah, who exercise loving-kindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth; for in these things I delight, saith Jehovah. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Behold, days are coming, saith Jehovah, when I will visit all them that are circumcised with the uncircumcised; <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Egypt, and Judah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and Moab, and all that have the corners of their beard cut off, that dwell in the wilderness: for all the nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>