<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time, saith Jehovah, they shall bring forth the bones of the kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and the bones of the priests, and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves; <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and they shall spread them out to the sun and to the moon and to all the host of the heavens, which they have loved, and which they have served, and after which they have walked, and which they have sought, and which they have worshipped: they shall not be gathered, nor be buried; they shall be for dung upon the face of the ground. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue that remain of this evil family, in all the places whither I have driven those that remain, saith Jehovah of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith Jehovah: Do men fall, and not rise up? Doth one turn away, and not return? <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why hath this people of Jerusalem slidden back with a perpetual backsliding? They hold fast deceit, they refuse to return. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I hearkened and heard: they speak not what is right; there is no man who repenteth him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? Every one turneth to his course, like a horse rushing into the battle. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Even a stork in the heavens knoweth her appointed times, and the turtle-dove and the swallow and the crane observe the time of their coming; but my people know not the judgment of Jehovah. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How do ye say, We are wise, and the law of Jehovah is with us? Behold, certainly the lying pen of the scribes hath made it falsehood. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The wise men are ashamed, they are dismayed and taken: behold, they have rejected Jehovah's word; and what wisdom is in them? <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore will I give their wives unto others, their fields to those that shall possess them; for every one, from the least even unto the greatest, is given to covetousness; from the prophet even unto the priest, every one dealeth falsely. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they have healed the breach of the daughter of my people lightly, saying, Peace, peace! when there is no peace. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Are they ashamed that they have committed abomination? Nay, they are not at all ashamed, and they know not how to blush. Therefore shall they fall among them that fall: in the time of their visitation they shall stumble, saith Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will utterly take them away, saith Jehovah: there are no grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig-tree; and the leaf is faded: and I will give them up to those that shall pass over them. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Why do we sit still? Assemble yourselves, and let us enter into the fenced cities, and let us be silent there: for Jehovah our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> hath put us to silence, and given us water of gall to drink, because we have sinned against Jehovah. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Peace is looked for, and there is no good; a time of healing, and behold, terror. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The snorting of his horses is heard from Dan: the whole land trembleth at the sound of the neighing of his steeds, and they come, and devour the land, and all it contains, the city and those that dwell therein. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For behold, I send among you serpents, vipers against which there is no charm, and they shall bite you, saith Jehovah. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> My comfort in my sadness! my heart is faint in me! <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people, from a very far country: Is not Jehovah in Zion? Is not her king in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their graven images, with foreign vanities? <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> --For the breach of the daughter of my people am I crushed; I go mourning; astonishment hath taken hold of me. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Is there no balm in Gilead? is there no physician there? Why then is there no dressing applied for the healing of the daughter of my people?</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>