<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of Jehovah that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Judah mourneth, and the gates thereof languish, they are black unto the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem goeth up. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And their nobles send their little ones for water: they come to the pits, they find no water; they return with their vessels empty; they are ashamed, they are confounded, and have covered their heads. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Because the ground is chapt, for there hath been no rain on the earth, the ploughmen are ashamed, they cover their heads. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For the hind also calveth in the field, and forsaketh its young, because there is no grass. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the wild asses stand on the heights, they snuff up the wind like jackals; their eyes fail, because there is no herbage. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah, though our iniquities testify against us, do thou act for thy name's sake; for our backslidings are many--we have sinned against thee. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thou hope of Israel, its Saviour in the time of trouble, why wilt thou be as a stranger in the land, and as a traveller that turneth aside to stay a night? <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Why wilt thou be as a man astonished, as a mighty man that cannot save? Yet thou, Jehovah, art in the midst of us, and we are called by thy name: leave us not.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thus saith Jehovah to this people: Even so have they loved to wander, they have not refrained their feet; and Jehovah hath no delight in them: now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jehovah said unto me, Pray not for this people for their good. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offer up burnt-offering and oblation, I will not accept them: for I will consume them by sword, and by famine, and by pestilence. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! Behold, the prophets say unto them, Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have famine; for I will give you assured peace in this place. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jehovah said unto me, The prophets prophesy falsehood in my name; I have not sent them, neither have I commanded them, nor spoken unto them: they prophesy unto you a false vision, and divination, and a thing of nought, and the deceit of their heart. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore thus saith Jehovah concerning the prophets that prophesy in my name, and I sent them not, and who say, Sword and famine shall not be in this land: By sword and by famine shall those prophets be consumed; <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem, because of the famine and the sword; and there shall be none to bury them, them, their wives, and their sons, and their daughters; and I will pour their wickedness upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And thou shalt say this word unto them: Let mine eyes run down with tears, night and day, and not cease; for the virgin daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very grievous blow. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If I go forth into the field, behold the slain with the sword! and if I enter into the city, behold them that pine away with famine! For both prophet and priest shall go about into a land that they know not. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> --Hast thou then utterly rejected Judah? Doth thy soul loathe Zion? Why hast thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? Peace is looked for, and there is no good, --and a time of healing, and behold terror! <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Jehovah, we acknowledge our wickedness, the iniquity of our fathers; for we have sinned against thee. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For thy name's sake, do not spurn us, do not disgrace the throne of thy glory: remember, break not thy covenant with us. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Are there any among the vanities of the nations that can cause rain? or can the heavens give showers? Art not thou HE, Jehovah, our God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> And we wait upon thee; for thou hast made all these things.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>