<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkijah, of the priests that were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin: <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to whom the word of Jehovah came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> it came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, unto the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah the son of Josiah, king of Judah, unto the carrying away of Jerusalem captive, in the fifth month.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth out of the womb I hallowed thee, I appointed thee a prophet unto the nations. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I said, Alas, Lord Jehovah! behold, I cannot speak; for I am a child. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But Jehovah said unto me, Say not, I am a child; for thou shalt go to whomsoever I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee thou shalt speak. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be not afraid of them; for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith Jehovah. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jehovah put forth his hand and touched my mouth; and Jehovah said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to pluck up, and to break down, and to destroy, and to overthrow, to build and to plant.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying, Jeremiah, what seest thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almond-tree. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jehovah said unto me, Thou hast well seen; for I am watchful over my word to perform it. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the word of Jehovah came to me the second time, saying, What seest thou? And I said, I see a seething-pot, and its face is from the north. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jehovah said unto me, Out of the north shall evil break forth upon all the inhabitants of the land. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For behold, I am calling all the families of the kingdoms of the north, saith Jehovah, and they shall come, and they shall set every one his throne at the entering of the gates of Jerusalem, and against all the walls thereof round about, and against all the cities of Judah: <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and I will pronounce my judgments against them for all their wickedness, in that they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, and worshipped the works of their own hands. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thou, therefore, gird up thy loins, and arise, and speak unto them all that I shall command thee: be not dismayed at them, lest I cause thee to be dismayed before them. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I, behold, I appoint thee this day as a strong city, and an iron pillar, and brazen walls, against the whole land; against the kings of Judah, against its princes, against its priests, and against the people of the land. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee: for I am with thee, saith Jehovah, to deliver thee.</p>

</body>
</html>