<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word that came unto Jeremiah from Jehovah, when king Zedekiah sent unto him Pashur the son of Malchijah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah, the priest, saying, <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Inquire, I pray thee, of Jehovah for us; for Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon maketh war against us; if so be that Jehovah will deal with us according to all his marvellous works, that he may go up from us. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jeremiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say to Zedekiah: <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thus saith Jehovah the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel: Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands, with which ye fight against the king of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans who besiege you, outside the walls, and I will assemble them into the midst of this city. <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I myself will fight against you with a stretched-out hand, and with a strong arm, and in anger, and in fury, and in great wrath. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will smite the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast: they shall die of a great pestilence. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And afterwards, saith Jehovah, I will give Zedekiah king of Judah, and his servants, and the people, and such as are left in this city from the pestilence, from the sword, and from the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, and into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those that seek their life, and he shall smite them with the edge of the sword: he shall not spare them, neither have pity, nor have mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And unto this people thou shalt say, Thus saith Jehovah: Behold, I set before you the way of life, and the way of death. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He that abideth in this city shall die by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence; but he that goeth out, and deserteth to the Chaldeans that besiege you, he shall live, and his life shall be unto him for a prey. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For I have set my face against this city for evil, and not for good, saith Jehovah: it shall be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire. <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And touching the house of the king of Judah, hear ye the word of Jehovah. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> House of David, thus saith Jehovah: Judge with justice in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my fury go forth like fire and burn, and there be none to quench it, because of the evil of your doings. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, I am against thee, inhabitress of the valley, the rock of the plain, saith Jehovah; ye that say, Who shall come down against us, or who shall enter into our dwellings? <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will visit you according to the fruit of your doings, saith Jehovah; and I will kindle a fire in her forest, and it shall devour all that is round about her.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>