<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Jeremiah 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Jeremiah 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Pashur the son of Immer, the priest--and he was chief officer in the house of Jehovah--heard Jeremiah prophesy these things. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Pashur smote Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks that were in the upper gate of Benjamin, which was in the house of Jehovah. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And it came to pass the next day, that Pashur brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks; and Jeremiah said unto him, Jehovah hath not called thy name Pashur, but Magor-missabib. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For thus saith Jehovah: Behold, I make thee a terror to thyself, and to all thy friends; and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and thine eyes shall see it; and I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall carry them captive into Babylon, and shall smite them with the sword. <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And, I will give all the wealth of this city, and all its gains, and all its precious things, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah, will I give into the hand of their enemies; and they shall make them a prey, and take them, and carry them to Babylon. <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou, Pashur, and all that dwell in thy house shall go into captivity; and thou shalt come to Babylon, and there thou shalt die, and there thou shalt be buried, thou and all thy friends to whom thou hast prophesied falsehood.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jehovah, thou hast enticed me, and I was enticed; thou hast laid hold of me, and hast prevailed; I am become a derision the whole day: every one mocketh me. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For as oft as I speak, I cry out; I proclaim violence and spoil; for the word of Jehovah is become unto me a reproach and a derision all the day. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any more in his name: but it was in my heart as a burning fire shut up in my bones; and I became wearied with holding in, and I could not. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For I have heard the defaming of many, terror on every side: Report, and we will report it. All my familiars are watching for my stumbling: Peradventure he will be enticed, and we shall prevail against him; and we shall take our revenge on him. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But Jehovah is with me as a mighty terrible one; therefore my persecutors shall stumble and shall not prevail; they shall be greatly ashamed, for they have not prospered: it shall be an everlasting confusion that shall not be forgotten. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou, Jehovah of hosts, who triest the righteous, who seest the reins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them; for unto thee have I revealed my cause. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Sing ye unto Jehovah, praise Jehovah, for he hath delivered the soul of the needy from the hand of evildoers.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Cursed be the day wherein I was born; let not the day wherein my mother bore me be blessed! <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A man child is born unto thee; making him very glad! <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And let that man be as the cities which Jehovah overthrew, and repented not; and let him hear a cry in the morning, and a shouting at noonday, <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> because he slew me not from the womb. Or would that my mother had been my grave, and her womb always great with me! <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Wherefore came I forth from the womb to see labour and sorrow, that my days should be consumed in shame?</p>

</body>
</html>