<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> How is the gold become dim! the most pure gold changed! the stones of the sanctuary poured out at the top of all the streets! <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The sons of Zion, so precious, comparable to fine gold, how are they esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter! <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Even the jackals offer the breast, they give suck to their young; the daughter of my people is become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The tongue of the sucking child cleaveth to the roof of his mouth for thirst; the young children ask bread, no man breaketh it unto them. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They that fed delicately are desolate in the streets; they that were brought up in scarlet embrace dung-hills. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the punishment of the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the reward of the sin of Sodom, which was overthrown as in a moment, and no hands were violently laid upon her. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Her Nazarites were purer than snow, whiter than milk; they were more ruddy in body than rubies, their figure was as sapphire. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Their visage is darker than blackness, they are not known in the streets; their skin cleaveth to their bones, it is withered, it is become like a stick. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The slain with the sword are happier than the slain with hunger; for these pine away, stricken through for want of the fruits of the field. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The hands of pitiful women have boiled their own children: they were their meat in the ruin of the daughter of my people. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Jehovah hath accomplished his fury; he hath poured out his fierce anger, and hath kindled a fire in Zion, which hath consumed the foundations thereof. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The kings of the earth, and all the inhabitants of the world, would not have believed that the adversary and the enemy should enter into the gates of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> It is for the sins of her prophets, and the iniquities of her priests, who have shed the blood of the righteous in the midst of her. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They wandered about blind in the streets; they were polluted with blood, so that men could not touch their garments. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> They cried unto them, Depart! Unclean! Depart! depart, touch not! When they fled away, and wandered about, it was said among the nations, They shall no more sojourn there. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The face of Jehovah hath divided them; he will no more regard them. They respected not the persons of the priests, they favoured not the aged. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Our eyes still failed for our vain help; in our watching, we have watched for a nation that did not save. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They hunted our steps, that we could not go in our streets: our end is near, our days are fulfilled; for our end is come. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles of the heavens; they chased us hotly upon the mountains, they laid wait for us in the wilderness. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of Jehovah, was taken in their pits; of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Rejoice and be glad, daughter of Edom, that dwellest in the land of Uz: the cup shall pass also unto thee; thou shalt be drunken, and make thyself naked. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The punishment of thine iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of Zion; he will no more carry thee away into captivity. He will visit thine iniquity, O daughter of Edom; he will discover thy sins.</p>

</body>
</html>