<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Lamentations 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Lamentations 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I am the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Me hath he led, and brought into darkness, and not into light. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Surely against me hath he turned again and again his hand all the day. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My flesh and my skin hath he wasted away, he hath broken my bones. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He hath built against me, and encompassed me with gall and toil. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He hath made me to dwell in dark places as those that have been long dead. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He hath hedged me about that I cannot get out: he hath made my chain heavy. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Even when I cry and shout, he shutteth out my prayer. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He hath inclosed my ways with hewn stone, he hath made my paths crooked. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He is unto me as a bear lying in wait, a lion in secret places. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He hath turned aside my ways, and pulled me in pieces; he hath made me desolate. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He hath bent his bow, and set me as a mark for the arrow. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He hath caused the arrows of his quiver to enter into my reins. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am become a derision to all my people; their song all the day. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He hath sated me with bitterness, he hath made me drunk with wormwood. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He hath also broken my teeth with gravel stones, he hath covered me with ashes. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And thou hast removed my soul far off from peace: I have forgotten prosperity. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I said, My strength is perished, and my hope in Jehovah. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Remember thou mine affliction and my wandering, the wormwood and the gall. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> My soul hath them constantly in remembrance, and is humbled in me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> --This I recall to heart, therefore have I hope. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> It is of Jehovah's loving-kindness we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not; <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> they are new every morning: great is thy faithfulness. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Jehovah is my portion, saith my soul; therefore will I hope in him. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jehovah is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> It is good that one should both wait, and that in silence, for the salvation of Jehovah. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth: <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> He sitteth solitary and keepeth silence, because he hath laid it upon him; <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> he putteth his mouth in the dust, if so be there may be hope; <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> he giveth his cheek to him that smiteth him; he is filled full with reproach. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For the Lord will not cast off for ever; <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> but if he have caused grief, he will have compassion according to the multitude of his loving-kindnesses: <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> for he doth not willingly afflict or grieve the children of men. <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> To crush under foot all the prisoners of the earth, <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> to turn aside the right of a man before the face of the Most High, <a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> to wrong a man in his cause, --will not the Lord see it?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Who is he that saith, and there cometh to pass, what the Lord hath not commanded? <a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Out of the mouth of the Most High doth not there proceed evil and good? <a id="c3_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Wherefore doth a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his sins? <a id="c3_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Let us search and try our ways, and turn again to Jehovah. <a id="c3_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> in the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> We have transgressed and have rebelled: thou hast not pardoned. <a id="c3_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Thou hast covered thyself with anger, and pursued us; thou hast slain, thou hast not spared. <a id="c3_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Thou hast covered thyself with a cloud, that prayer should not pass through. <a id="c3_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Thou hast made us the offscouring and refuse in the midst of the peoples. <a id="c3_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> All our enemies have opened their mouth against us. <a id="c3_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Fear and the pit are come upon us, devastation and ruin. <a id="c3_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Mine eye runneth down with streams of water for the ruin of the daughter of my people. <a id="c3_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Mine eye poureth down, and ceaseth not, without any intermission, <a id="c3_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> till Jehovah look down and behold from the heavens. <a id="c3_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Mine eye affecteth my soul, because of all the daughters of my city. <a id="c3_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> They that are mine enemies without cause have chased me sore like a bird. <a id="c3_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> They have cut off my life in a pit, and cast a stone upon me. <a id="c3_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Waters streamed over my head; I said, I am cut off.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> I called upon thy name, Jehovah, out of the lowest pit. <a id="c3_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Thou hast heard my voice: hide not thine ear at my sighing, at my cry. <a id="c3_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Thou drewest near in the day that I called upon thee; thou saidst, Fear not. <a id="c3_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Lord, thou hast pleaded the cause of my soul, thou hast redeemed my life. <a id="c3_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> Jehovah, thou hast seen my wrong: judge thou my cause. <a id="c3_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> Thou hast seen all their vengeance, all their imaginations against me. <a id="c3_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> Thou hast heard their reproach, O Jehovah, all their imaginations against me; <a id="c3_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> the lips of those that rise up against me and their meditation against me all the day. <a id="c3_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> Behold thou their sitting down and their rising up: I am their song. <a id="c3_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Render unto them a recompence, O Jehovah, according to the work of their hands; <a id="c3_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> give them obduracy of heart, thy curse unto them; <a id="c3_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> pursue them in anger, and destroy them from under the heavens of Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>