<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying: <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And thou, son of man, take up a lamentation for Tyre, <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and say unto Tyre: O thou that art situate at the entries of the sea, and traffickest with the peoples in many isles, thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Thou, Tyre, hast said, I am perfect in beauty. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thy borders are in the heart of the seas, thy builders have perfected thy beauty. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They made all thy double boards of cypress-trees of Senir; they took cedars from Lebanon to make masts for thee. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Of the oaks of Bashan did they make thine oars; they made thy benches of ivory, inlaid in box-wood, out of the isles of Chittim. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Byssus with broidered work from Egypt was thy sail, to serve thee for a banner; blue and purple from the isles of Elishah was thine awning. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad were thy rowers; thy wise men, O Tyre, who were in thee, were thy pilots. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The elders of Gebal and the wise men thereof were in thee repairing thy leaks; all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in thee, to barter with thee. <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Persia and Lud and Phut were in thine army, thy men of war: they hanged shield and helmet in thee; they gave splendour to thee. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The children of Arvad with thine army were upon thy walls round about, and the Gammadim were on thy towers: they hanged their shields upon thy walls round about; they made thy beauty perfect. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Tarshish dealt with thee by reason of the abundance of all substance; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they furnished thy markets. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were thy traffickers: they bartered with thee the persons of men, and vessels of bronze. <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They of the house of Togarmah furnished thy markets with horses, and horsemen, and mules. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The children of Dedan were thy traffickers; many isles were the mart of thy hand: they rendered in payment horns of ivory, and ebony. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Syria dealt with thee for the multitude of thy handiworks: they traded in thy markets with carbuncles, purple, and broidered work, and fine linen, and corals, and rubies. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Judah and the land of Israel were thy traffickers: they bartered with thee wheat of Minnith, and sweet cakes, and honey, and oil, and balm. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Damascus dealt with thee because of the multitude of thy handiworks, by reason of the abundance of all substance, with wine of Helbon, and white wool. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Vedan and Javan of Uzal traded in thy markets: wrought iron, cassia, and calamus were in thy traffic. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Dedan was thy trafficker in precious riding-cloths. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Arabia and all the princes of Kedar were the merchants of thy hand: in lambs, and rams, and goats, in these did they trade with thee. <a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The merchants of Sheba and Raamah were thy traffickers: they furnished thy markets with all the choice spices, and with all precious stones and gold. <a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Haran, and Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheba, Asshur, and Chilmad traded with thee: <a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> these traded with thee in sumptuous clothes, in wrappings of blue and broidered work, and in chests full of variegated stuffs, bound with cords and made of cedar-wood, amongst thy merchandise. <a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The ships of Tarshish were thy caravans for thy traffic; and thou wast replenished, and highly honoured, in the heart of the seas.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Thy rowers have brought thee into great waters; the east wind hath broken thee in the heart of the seas. <a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Thy substance, and thy markets, thy merchandise, thy mariners, and thy pilots, they that repair thy leaks, and they that barter with thee, and all thy men of war that are in thee, along with all thine assemblage which is in the midst of thee, shall fall into the heart of the seas in the day of thy fall. <a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The open places shall shake at the sound of the cry of thy pilots. <a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And all that handle the oar, the mariners, all the pilots of the sea, shall come down from their ships; they shall stand upon the land, <a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and shall cause their voice to be heard over thee, and shall cry bitterly; and they shall cast up dust upon their heads; they shall wallow themselves in ashes. <a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they shall make themselves utterly bald for thee, and gird themselves with sackcloth; and they shall weep for thee in bitterness of soul with bitter mourning. <a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And in their wailing they shall take up a lamentation for thee, and lament over thee, saying, Who is like Tyre, like her that is destroyed in the midst of the sea? <a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> When thy wares went forth over the seas, thou filledst many peoples; thou didst enrich the kings of the earth with the abundance of thy substance and of thy merchandise. <a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> In the time when thou art broken by the seas, in the depths of the waters, thy merchandise and all thine assemblage in the midst of thee have fallen. <a id="c27_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> All the inhabitants of the isles are amazed at thee, and their kings are horribly afraid, their countenance is troubled. <a id="c27_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The merchants among the peoples hiss at thee; thou art become a terror, and thou shalt never be any more.</p>

</body>
</html>