<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 29</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 29</h2>

<p><a id="c29_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth of the month, the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c29_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against the whole of Egypt; <a id="c29_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great monster that lieth in the midst of his rivers, which saith, My river is mine own, and I made it for myself. <a id="c29_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of thy rivers to stick unto thy scales, and I will bring thee up out of the midst of thy rivers, and all the fish of thy rivers shall stick unto thy scales; <a id="c29_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and I will cast thee into the wilderness, thee and all the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the open field; thou shalt not be brought together nor gathered: I will give thee for meat to the beasts of the earth and to the fowl of the heavens. <a id="c29_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am Jehovah, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel. <a id="c29_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou didst give way and rend all their shoulder; and when they leaned upon thee, thou didst break, and didst make all their loins to tremble.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will bring a sword upon thee, and cut off man and beast from thee. <a id="c29_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste: and they shall know that I am Jehovah, because he saith, The river is mine, and I made it. <a id="c29_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore behold, I am against thee, and against thy rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt deserts of wasteness and desolation, from Migdol to Syene, even unto the border of Ethiopia. <a id="c29_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> No foot of man shall pass through it, nor shall foot of beast pass through it, nor shall it be inhabited, forty years. <a id="c29_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will make the land of Egypt a desolation in the midst of the countries that are desolated, and her cities shall be, in the midst of the cities that are laid waste, a desolation forty years; and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries. <a id="c29_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet thus saith the Lord Jehovah: At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the peoples whither they were scattered; <a id="c29_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and I will turn again the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return to the land of Pathros, into the land of their birth, and they shall there be a base kingdom. <a id="c29_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It shall be the basest of kingdoms; neither shall it exalt itself any more above the nations; and I will diminish them, so that they shall no more rule over the nations. <a id="c29_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, bringing iniquity to remembrance, when they turn after them: and they shall know that I am the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c29_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it came to pass in the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first of the month, that the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c29_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon caused his army to do hard service against Tyre; every head was made bald, and every shoulder was peeled: yet had he from Tyre no wages, nor his army, for the service that he had served against it. <a id="c29_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he shall carry away her multitude, and seize her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army. <a id="c29_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I have given him the land of Egypt for his labour wherewith he served against it, because they wrought for me, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c29_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In that day will I cause the horn of the house of Israel to bud forth, and I will give thee the opening of the mouth in the midst of them: and they shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>