<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, set thy face against Jerusalem, and drop words against the holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel, <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and say to the land of Israel, Thus saith Jehovah: Behold, I am against thee, and I will draw forth my sword out of its sheath, and will cut off from thee the righteous and the wicked. <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Seeing that I will cut off from thee the righteous and the wicked, therefore shall my sword go forth out of its sheath against all flesh, from the south to the north; <a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and all flesh shall know that I Jehovah have drawn forth my sword out of its sheath: it shall not return any more. <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sigh then, thou son of man; with breaking of the loins, and with bitterness sigh before their eyes. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it shall be, when they say unto thee, Wherefore dost thou sigh? that thou shalt say, Because of the tidings, for it cometh; and every heart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and every spirit shall languish, and all knees shall melt into water: behold, it cometh; it is here, saith the Lord Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus saith Jehovah: Say, A sword, a sword is sharpened, and also furbished. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> It is sharpened for sore slaughter, it is furbished that it may glitter. Shall we then make mirth, saying, The sceptre of my son contemneth all wood? <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he hath given it to be furbished that it may be handled. The sword, --it is sharpened, and it is furbished to give it into the hand of the slayer. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Cry and howl, son of man; for it shall be against my people, it shall be against all the princes of Israel: they are given up to the sword along with my people: smite therefore upon the thigh. <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For the trial is made; and what if even the contemning sceptre shall be no more? saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And thou, son of man, prophesy, and smite thy hands together; for the strokes of the sword shall be doubled the third time: it is the sword of the slain, the sword that hath slain the great one, which encompasseth them privily. <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In order that the heart may melt, and the stumbling-blocks be multiplied, I have set the threatening sword against all their gates: ah! it is made glittering, it is whetted for the slaughter. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Gather up strength, go to the right hand, turn thee, go to the left, whithersoever thy face is appointed. <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I myself will smite my hands together, and I will satisfy my fury: I Jehovah have spoken it.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And thou, son of man, set thee two ways, by which the sword of the king of Babylon may come--out of one land shall they both come--and make thee a signpost, make it at the head of the way to the city. <a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Appoint a way for the coming of the sword to Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and to Judah at the fenced city of Jerusalem. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For the king of Babylon standeth at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination: he shaketh his arrows, he inquireth of the teraphim, he looketh in the liver. <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In his right hand is the lot of Jerusalem to appoint battering-rams, to open the mouth for bloodshed, to lift up the voice with shouting, to appoint battering-rams against the gates, to cast mounds, to build siege-towers. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And this shall be a false divination in their sight, for them that have sworn oaths; but he will call to remembrance the iniquity, that they may be taken. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because ye make your iniquity to be remembered in that your transgressions are discovered, so that in all your doings your sins appear; because ye are come to remembrance, ye shall be taken with the hand. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And thou, profane, wicked prince of Israel, whose day is come, at the time of the iniquity of the end, <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> --thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Remove the mitre and take off the crown; what is shall be no more. Exalt that which is low, and abase that which is high. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I will overturn, overturn, overturn it! This also shall be no more, until he come whose right it is; and I will give it to him.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And thou, son of man, prophesy and say, Thus speaketh the Lord Jehovah concerning the children of Ammon, and concerning their reproach; and thou shalt say, A sword, a sword is drawn; for the slaughter is it furbished, that it may consume, that it may glitter: <a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> whilst they see vanity for thee, whilst they divine a lie unto thee, to lay thee upon the necks of the wicked that are slain, whose day is come at the time of the iniquity of the end. <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Restore it to its sheath. I will judge thee in the place where thou wast created, in the land of thy birth. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And I will pour out mine indignation upon thee, I will blow upon thee the fire of my wrath, and give thee into the hand of brutish men, skilful to destroy. <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Thou shalt be for fuel to the fire; thy blood shall be in the midst of the land; thou shalt not be remembered: for I Jehovah have spoken.</p>

</body>
</html>