<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he cried in mine ears with a loud voice, saying, Draw near, ye that have charge of the city, and every man with his destroying weapon in his hand. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, six men came from the way of the upper gate, which is turned toward the north, and every man with his slaughter weapon in his hand; and in the midst of them, one man clothed with linen, with a writer's ink-horn by his side; and they went in, and stood beside the brazen altar. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the glory of the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of Israel was gone up from the cherub, whereupon it was, to the threshold of the house; and he called to the man clothed with linen, who had the writer's ink-horn by his side; <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and Jehovah said unto him, Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry for all the abominations that are done in the midst thereof.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And to the others he said in my hearing, Go after him through the city, and smite: let not your eye spare, neither have pity. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Slay utterly the old man, the young man, and the maiden, and little children, and women; but come not near any man upon whom is the mark; and begin at my sanctuary. Then they began at the elders who were before the house. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he said unto them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain: go forth. And they went forth, and smote in the city. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it came to pass, while they were smiting, and I was left, that I fell upon my face, and cried, and said, Ah, Lord Jehovah! wilt thou destroy all the remnant of Israel in thy pouring out of thy fury upon Jerusalem? <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said unto me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is exceeding great, and the land is full of blood, and the city full of perverseness; for they say, Jehovah hath forsaken the earth, and Jehovah seeth not. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And as for me also, mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I will recompense their way upon their head. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And behold, the man clothed with linen, who had the ink-horn by his side, reported the matter, saying, I have done as thou hast commanded me.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>