<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 45</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 45</h2>

<p><a id="c45_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when ye shall divide by lot the land for inheritance, ye shall offer a heave-offering unto Jehovah, a holy portion of the land: the length shall be the length of five and twenty thousand cubits, and the breadth ten thousand. This shall be holy in all the borders thereof round about. <a id="c45_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Of this there shall be for the sanctuary five hundred reeds by five hundred, square round about; and fifty cubits round about for the suburbs thereof. <a id="c45_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And of this measure shalt thou measure the length of five and twenty thousand, and the breadth of ten thousand; and in it shall be the sanctuary, the holy of holies. <a id="c45_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> This is the holy portion of the land; it shall be for the priests who do the service of the sanctuary, who draw near to serve Jehovah, and it shall be a place for their houses, and a holy place for the sanctuary. <a id="c45_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And a space of five and twenty thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth, shall the Levites, who do the service of the house, have for themselves, for a possession, for their habitations. <a id="c45_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And ye shall appoint the possession of the city five thousand in breadth, and five and twenty thousand in length, alongside of the holy heave-offering: it shall be for the whole house of Israel. <a id="c45_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the prince shall have his portion on the one side and on the other side of the holy heave-offering and of the possession of the city, over against the holy heave-offering, and over against the possession of the city, from the west side westward, and from the east side eastward; and in length answering to one of the portions of the tribes from the west border unto the east border. <a id="c45_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> As land shall it be his for a possession in Israel; and my princes shall no more oppress my people; but they shall give the land to the house of Israel according to their tribes.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Let it suffice you, princes of Israel! Put away violence and spoil, and execute judgment and justice; take off your exactions from my people, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c45_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath. <a id="c45_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, so that the bath may contain the tenth part of a homer, and the ephah the tenth part of a homer: the measure thereof shall be according to the homer. <a id="c45_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs; twenty shekels, five and twenty shekels, fifteen shekels, shall be your maneh.</p>

<p><a id="c45_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the heave-offering which ye shall offer: the sixth part of an ephah out of a homer of wheat, and ye shall give the sixth part of an ephah out of a homer of barley; <a id="c45_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the set portion of oil, by the bath of oil, the tenth part of a bath out of a cor, which is a homer of ten baths, for ten baths are a homer; <a id="c45_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, from the well-watered pastures of Israel; --for an oblation, and for a burnt-offering, and for peace-offerings, to make atonement for them, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c45_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All the people of the land shall be held to this heave-offering for the prince in Israel. <a id="c45_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it shall be the prince's part to supply the burnt-offerings, and the oblation, and the drink-offering, at the feasts, and at the new moons, and on the sabbaths, in all the solemnities of the house of Israel: it is he that shall prepare the sin-offering, and the oblation, and the burnt-offering, and the peace-offerings, to make atonement for the house of Israel. <a id="c45_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: In the first month, on the first of the month, thou shalt take a young bullock, without blemish, and thou shalt purge the sanctuary. <a id="c45_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin-offering, and put it upon the posts of the house, and upon the four corners of the settle of the altar, and upon the posts of the gate of the inner court. <a id="c45_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So thou shalt do also on the seventh of the month for every one that erreth, and for the simple; and ye shall make atonement for the house. <a id="c45_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, ye shall have the passover, a feast of seven days: unleavened bread shall be eaten. <a id="c45_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And upon that day shall the prince offer for himself and for all the people of the land a bullock for a sin-offering. <a id="c45_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the seven days of the feast he shall offer a burnt-offering to Jehovah, seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish daily for the seven days; and a he-goat daily for a sin-offering. <a id="c45_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he shall offer an oblation of an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram; and oil, a hin for an ephah. <a id="c45_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, at the feast, shall he do the like seven days, according to the sin-offering, according to the burnt-offering, and according to the oblation, and according to the oil.</p>

</body>
</html>