<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, set thy face against the children of Ammon, and prophesy against them; <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and say unto the children of Ammon, Hear the word of the Lord Jehovah. Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because thou saidst, Aha, against my sanctuary, when it was profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was made desolate; and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity: <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> therefore behold, I will give thee to the children of the east for a possession, and they shall set their encampments in thee, and make their dwellings in thee; they shall eat thy fruits, and they shall drink thy milk. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will make Rabbah a pasture for camels, and the children of Ammon a couching-place for flocks: and ye shall know that I am Jehovah. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because thou hast clapped the hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced with all the despite of thy soul against the land of Israel; <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> therefore behold, I will stretch out my hand upon thee, and will give thee for a spoil to the nations; and I will cut thee off from the peoples, and I will cause thee to perish out of the countries: I will destroy thee, and thou shalt know that I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because Moab and Seir do say, Behold, the house of Judah is like unto all the nations, <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> therefore behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities even to the last of them, the glory of the country, Beth-jeshimoth, Baal-meon, and Kirjathaim, <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> unto the children of the east, with the land of the children of Ammon; and I will give it them for a possession, that the children of Ammon may not be remembered among the nations: <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and I will execute judgments upon Moab, and they shall know that I am Jehovah. <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because Edom hath dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and hath made himself very guilty, and revenged himself upon them, <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will also stretch out my hand upon Edom; and will cut off man and beast from it; and I will make it desolate from Teman; and unto Dedan shall they fall by the sword. <a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will execute my vengeance upon Edom, by the hand of my people Israel; and they shall do in Edom according to mine anger and according to my fury; and they shall know my vengeance, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Because the Philistines have dealt by revenge, and have taken vengeance with despite of soul, to destroy, from old hatred; <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: Behold, I stretch out my hands upon the Philistines, and I will cut off the Kerethites, and cause the remnant of the sea-coast to perish. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I will execute great vengeance upon them with furious rebukes; and they shall know that I am Jehovah, when I shall lay my vengeance upon them.</p>

</body>
</html>