<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And thou, son of man, take thee a brick, and lay it before thee, and portray upon it a city, --Jerusalem: <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and lay siege against it, and build forts against it, and cast a mound against it, and set camps against it, and place battering-rams against it round about. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And take thou unto thee an iron plate, and put it for a wall of iron between thee and the city; and set thy face against it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against it: this shall be a sign to the house of Israel. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou, lie upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel upon it: the number of the days that thou liest upon it, thou shalt bear their iniquity. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I have appointed thee the years of their iniquity, according to the number of the days, three hundred and ninety days; and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Israel. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when thou hast accomplished them, thou shalt lie again on thy right side, and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days: I have appointed thee each day for a year. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou shalt set thy face toward the siege of Jerusalem, and thine arm shall be uncovered, and thou shalt prophesy against it. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And behold, I lay bands upon thee, and thou shalt not turn thyself from one side to the other, till thou hast ended the days of thy siege.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And thou, take unto thee wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentils, and millet, and spelt, and put them in one vessel, and make thee bread thereof, according to the number of the days that thou liest upon thy side: three hundred and ninety days shalt thou eat thereof. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And thy meat which thou shalt eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time shalt thou eat it. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And thou shalt drink water by measure, the sixth part of a hin: from time to time shalt thou drink. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And thou shalt eat it as barley-cake, and thou shalt bake it in their sight with dung that cometh out of man. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jehovah said, So shall the children of Israel eat their bread unclean among the nations whither I will drive them. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then said I, Ah, Lord Jehovah! behold, my soul hath not been defiled, and from my youth up even until now have I not eaten of that which dieth of itself, or of that which is torn; neither came there abominable flesh into my mouth. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said unto me, See, I have given thee cow's dung for man's dung, and thou shalt prepare thy bread therewith. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he said unto me, Son of man, behold, I break the staff of bread in Jerusalem; and they shall eat bread by weight, and with anxiety; and they shall drink water by measure, and with astonishment: <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> because bread and water shall fail them, and they shall be astonied one with another, and waste away in their iniquity.</p>

</body>
</html>