<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he said unto me, Son of man, stand upon thy feet, and I will speak with thee. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Spirit entered into me when he spoke unto me, and set me upon my feet; and I heard him that spoke unto me. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said unto me, Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel, to nations that are rebellious, which have rebelled against me: they and their fathers have transgressed against me unto this very day; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and these children are impudent and hard-hearted: I am sending thee unto them; and thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they, whether they will hear or whether they will forbear--for they are a rebellious house--yet shall they know that there hath been a prophet among them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And thou, son of man, be not afraid of them, and be not afraid of their words; for briars and thorns are with thee, and thou dwellest among scorpions: be not afraid of their words, and be not dismayed at their faces; for they are a rebellious house. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And thou shalt speak my words unto them, whether they will hear or whether they will forbear; for they are rebellious. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And thou, son of man, hear what I say unto thee; be not thou rebellious like that rebellious house: open thy mouth, and eat that I give thee. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I looked, and behold, a hand was put forth toward me; and behold, a roll of a book therein. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he spread it out before me; and it was written within and without; and there were written in it lamentations, and mourning, and woe.</p>

</body>
</html>