<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth of the month, as I was among the captives by the river Chebar, the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> On the fifth of the month, (it was the fifth year of king Jehoiachin's captivity,) <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the word of Jehovah came expressly unto Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of Jehovah was there upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I looked, and behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, a great cloud, and a fire infolding itself, and a brightness was about it, and out of the midst thereof as the look of glowing brass, out of the midst of the fire. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Also out of the midst thereof, the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance: they had the likeness of a man. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And every one had four faces, and every one of them had four wings. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And their feet were straight feet; and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf's foot; and they sparkled as the look of burnished brass. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides; and they four had their faces and their wings: <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> their wings were joined one to another; they turned not when they went; they went every one straight forward. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the likeness of their faces was the face of a man; and they four had the face of a lion on the right side; and they four had the face of an ox on the left side; they four had also the face of an eagle. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And their faces and their wings were parted above; two wings of every one were joined one to another, and two covered their bodies. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they went every one straight forward: whither the Spirit was to go, they went; they turned not when they went. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And as for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, as the appearance of torches: it went up and down among the living creatures; and the fire was bright; and out of the fire went forth lightning. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I looked at the living creatures, and behold, one wheel upon the earth beside the living creatures, toward their four faces. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The appearance of the wheels and their work was as the look of a chrysolite; and they four had one likeness; and their appearance and their work was as it were a wheel in the middle of a wheel. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> When they went, they went upon their four sides; they turned not when they went. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As for their rims, they were high and dreadful; and they four had their rims full of eyes round about. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them; and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Whithersoever the Spirit was to go, they went, thither would their spirit go; and the wheels were lifted up along with them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When those went, they went; and when those stood, they stood; and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up along with them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And there was the likeness of an expanse over the heads of the living creature, as the look of the terrible crystal, stretched forth over their heads above. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And under the expanse were their wings straight, the one toward the other: every one had two which covered on this side, and every one had two which covered on that side their bodies. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when they went, I heard the noise of their wings, like the noise of great waters, as the voice of the Almighty, a tumultuous noise, as the noise of a host: when they stood, they let down their wings; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and there was a voice from above the expanse that was over their heads. When they stood, they let down their wings.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And above the expanse that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone; and upon the likeness of the throne was a likeness as the appearance of a man above upon it. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And I saw as the look of glowing brass, as the appearance of fire, within it round about; from the appearance of his loins and upward, and from the appearance of his loins and downward, I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and it had brightness round about. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> As the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness round about. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of Jehovah. And when I saw, I fell on my face, and I heard a voice of one that spoke.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>