<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezekiel 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezekiel 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Son of man, thou dwellest in the midst of a rebellious house, which have eyes to see, and see not, which have ears to hear, and hear not; for they are a rebellious house. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thou, son of man, prepare thee a captive's baggage, and go captive by day in their sight; and thou shalt go captive from thy place to another place in their sight. It may be they will consider, though they are a rebellious house. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And bring forth thy baggage by day in their sight, as a captive's baggage, and thou thyself, go forth at even in their sight as they that go forth into captivity. <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Dig thou through the wall in their sight, and carry out thereby. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> In their sight shalt thou bear it upon thy shoulder, and carry it forth in the dark; thou shalt cover thy face, and thou shalt not see the ground: for I have appointed thee for a sign unto the house of Israel. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I did so as I was commanded: I brought forth my baggage by day, as a captive's baggage, and in the even I digged through the wall with my hand; I brought it forth in the dark, andbore it upon my shoulder, in their sight. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And in the morning the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Son of man, hath not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said unto thee, What doest thou? <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: This burden concerneth the prince in Jerusalem, and all the house of Israel that are among them. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Say, I am your sign: as I have done, so shall it be done unto them: they shall go into exile, into captivity. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the prince that is among them shall bear upon his shoulder in the dark, and shall go forth; they shall dig through the wall to carry out thereby; he shall cover his face, that he see not the land with his eyes. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in my snare; and I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans; but he shall not see it, and there shall he die. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will scatter toward every wind all that are about him to help him, and all his troops; and I will draw out the sword after them. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they shall know that I am Jehovah when I shall scatter them among the nations and disperse them through the countries. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But I will leave a few men of them from the sword, from the famine, and from the pestilence; that they may declare all their abominations among the nations whither they shall come; and they shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the word of Jehovah came to me, saying, <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Son of man, eat thy bread with quaking, and drink thy water with trembling and with anxiety; <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and say unto the people of the land, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem, in the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread with anxiety, and drink their water with astonishment, because her land shall be left desolate of all that is in it, for the violence of all them that dwell therein. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land shall be a desolation; and ye shall know that I am Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Son of man, what is that proverb which ye have in the land of Israel, saying, The days shall be prolonged, and every vision faileth? <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Tell them therefore, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: I will make this proverb to cease, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel; but say unto them, The days are at hand, and the accomplishment of every vision. <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For there shall be no more any vain vision nor flattering divination in the midst of the house of Israel. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I am Jehovah; I will speak, and the word that I shall speak shall be performed, it shall be no more deferred. For in your days, O rebellious house, will I speak the word and will perform it, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, The vision that he seeth is for many days, and he prophesieth of times that are far off. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord Jehovah: There shall none of my words be deferred any more, but the word that I have spoken shall be done, saith the Lord Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>