<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Daniel 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Daniel 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince who standeth for the children of thy people; and there shall be a time of distress, such as never was since there was a nation until that time. And at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that is found written in the book. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame, to everlasting contempt. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they that are wise shall shine as the brightness of the expanse; and they that turn the many to righteousness as the stars, for ever and ever. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And thou, Daniel, close the words, and seal the book, till the time of the end. Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I Daniel looked, and behold, there stood other two, the one on this side, on the bank of the river, and the other on that side, on the bank of the river. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, How long is it to the end of these wonders? <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river; and he held up his right hand and his left hand unto the heavens, and swore by him that liveth for ever that it is for a time, times, and a half; and when the scattering of the power of the holy people shall be accomplished, all these things shall be finished. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I heard, but I understood not. And I said, My lord, what shall be the end of these things? <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said, Go thy way, Daniel; for these words are closed and sealed till the time of the end. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Many shall be purified, and be made white, and be refined; but the wicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall understand; but the wise shall understand. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And from the time that the continual sacrifice is taken away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a thousand, two hundred, and ninety days. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and thirty-five days! <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But do thou go thy way until the end; and thou shalt rest, and stand in thy lot at the end of the days.</p>

</body>
</html>