<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As they called them, so they went from them: they sacrificed unto the Baals, and burned incense to graven images. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I it was that taught Ephraim to walk, --He took them upon his arms, --but they knew not that I healed them. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I drew them with bands of a man, with cords of love; and I was to them as they that take off the yoke on their jaws, and I gently caused them to eat. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He shall not return into the land of Egypt, but the Assyrian shall be his king; for they refused to return to me; <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the sword shall turn about in his cities, and shall consume his bars, and devour them, because of their own counsels. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yea, my people are bent upon backsliding from me: though they call them to the Most High, none at all exalteth him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How shall I give thee over, Ephraim? how shall I deliver thee up, Israel? how shall I make thee as Admah? how shall I set thee as Zeboim? My heart is turned within me, my repentings are kindled together. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not again destroy Ephraim; for I am ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and not man, --the Holy One in the midst of thee: and I will not come in anger. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They shall walk after Jehovah; he shall roar like a lion; when he shall roar, then the children shall hasten from the west: <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> they shall hasten as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of the land of Assyria; and I will cause them to dwell in their houses, saith Jehovah. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ephraim encompasseth me about with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit; but Judah yet walketh with ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> and with the holy things of truth.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>