<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Come and let us return unto Jehovah: for he hath torn, and he will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> After two days will he revive us; on the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live before his face; <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and we shall know, --we shall follow on to know Jehovah: his going forth is assured as the morning dawn; and he will come unto us as the rain, as the latter rain which watereth the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What shall I do unto thee, Ephraim? What shall I do unto thee, Judah? For your goodness is as a morning cloud, and as the dew that early passeth away. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth: and my judgment goeth forth as the light. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I delight in loving-kindness, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> more than burnt-offerings. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But they like Adam have transgressed the covenant: there have they dealt treacherously against me. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Gilead is a city of them that work iniquity; it is tracked with blood. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And as troops of robbers lie in wait for a man, so the company of priests murder in the way of Shechem; yea, they commit lewdness. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> In the house of Israel have I seen a horrible thing: the whoredom of Ephraim is there; Israel is defiled. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Also, for thee, Judah, is a harvest appointed, when I shall turn again the captivity of my people.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>