<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear this, ye priests; and hearken, ye house of Israel; and give ear, O house of the king: for this judgment is for you; for ye have been a snare at Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they have plunged themselves in the corruption of apostasy, but I will be a chastiser of them all. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me; for now, Ephraim, thou hast committed whoredom; Israel is defiled. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their doings do not allow them to return unto their God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> for the spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of them, and they know not Jehovah. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Israel's pride doth testify to his face; and Israel and Ephraim shall fall by their iniquity: Judah also shall fall with them. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek Jehovah; but they shall not find him: he hath withdrawn himself from them. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They have dealt treacherously against Jehovah; for they have begotten strange children: now shall the new moon devour them, with their allotted possessions.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Blow the horn in Gibeah, the trumpet in Ramah; cry aloud at Beth-aven: behind thee, O Benjamin! <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ephraim shall be a desolation in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which is sure. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The princes of Judah are become like them that remove the landmark: I will pour out my wrath upon them like water. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Ephraim is oppressed, crushed in judgment, because in selfwill he walked after the commandment of man. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will be unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah his sore, then went Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to king Jareb; but he was unable to heal you, nor hath he removed your sore. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah. I, I will tear and go away; I will carry off, and there shall be none to deliver. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will go away, I will return to my place, till they acknowledge their trespass, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me early.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>