<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Israel is an unpruned vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto himself: according to the abundance of his fruit he hath multiplied altars; according to the goodness of his land they have made goodly statues. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Their heart is divided; now shall they be found guilty: he will break down their altars, he will destroy their statues. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For now they will say, We have no king, for we feared not Jehovah; and a king, what can he do for us? <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They speak mere words, swearing falsely in making a covenant; therefore shall judgment spring up as hemlock in the furrows of the fields. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calf of Beth-aven; for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the idolatrous priests thereof shall tremble for it, for its glory, because it is departed from it. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yea, it shall be carried unto Assyria as a present for king Jareb: Ephraim shall be seized with shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> As for Samaria her king is cut off as chips upon the face of the waters. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the high places of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up upon their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us! and to the hills, Fall on us!</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the days of Gibeah hast thou sinned, O Israel: there they stood: the battle in Gibeah against the children of iniquity did not overtake them. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> At my pleasure will I chastise them; and the peoples shall be assembled against them, when they are bound for their two iniquities. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Ephraim is a trained heifer, that loveth to tread out the corn; I have passed over upon her fair neck: I will make Ephraim to draw; Judah shall plough, Jacob shall break his clods. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap according to mercy; break up your fallow ground: for it is time to seek Jehovah, till he come and rain righteousness upon you. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye have ploughed wickedness, reaped iniquity, eaten the fruit of lies; for thou didst confide in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And a tumult shall arise among thy peoples, and all thy fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Beth-arbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces with the children. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> So shall Bethel do unto you because of the wickedness of your wickedness: at day-break shall the king of Israel utterly be cut off.</p>

</body>
</html>