<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When I would heal Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim is discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria: for they practise falsehood; and the thief entereth in, and the troop of robbers assaileth without. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they say not in their hearts that I remember all their wickedness: now do their own doings encompass them; they are before my face. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They all practise adultery, as an oven heated by the baker: he ceaseth from stirring the fire after he hath kneaded the dough, until it be leavened. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> In the day of our king, the princes made themselves sick with the heat of wine: he stretched out his hand to scorners. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For they have applied their heart like an oven to their lying in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth like a flaming fire. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are all hot as an oven, and devour their judges; all their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ephraim, he mixeth himself with the peoples; Ephraim is a cake not turned. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not; yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, and he knoweth it not. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face; and they do not return to Jehovah their God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> nor seek him for all this. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Ephraim is become like a silly dove without understanding: they call to Egypt, they go to Assyria. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When they go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring them down as the fowl of the heavens; I will chastise them, according as their assembly hath heard. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Woe unto them! for they have wandered from me; destruction unto them! for they have transgressed against me. And I would redeem them; but they speak lies against me. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they cried not unto me in their heart, when they howled upon their beds; they assemble themselves for corn and new wine; they have turned aside from me. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have indeed trained, I have strengthened their arms, but they imagine mischief against me. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They return, but not to the Most High: they are like a deceitful bow. Their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>