<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of Jehovah that came unto Hosea, the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The beginning of the word of Jehovah through Hosea. And Jehovah said to Hosea, Go, take unto thee a wife of whoredoms, and children of whoredoms; for the land is entirely given up to whoredom, away from Jehovah. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; and she conceived and bore him a son. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jehovah said unto him, Call his name Jizreel; for yet a little, and I will visit the blood of Jizreel upon the house of Jehu, and will cause the kingdom of the house of Israel to cease. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jizreel. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she conceived again, and bore a daughter. And he said unto him, Call her name Lo-ruhamah; for I will no more have mercy upon the house of Israel, so that I should pardon them. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But I will have mercy upon the house of Judah, and will save them by Jehovah their God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and I will not save them by bow, or by sword, or by battle, or by horses, or by horsemen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And she weaned Lo-ruhamah; and she conceived and bore a son; <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and he said, Call his name Lo-ammi; for ye are not my people, and I will not be for you. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of the sea which cannot be measured or numbered; and it shall come to pass, that in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people, it shall be said unto them, Sons of the living ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a>  <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the children of Judah and the children of Israel shall be gathered together, and they shall appoint themselves one head, and shall go up out of the land: for great is the day of Jizreel.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>