<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hosea 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hosea 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Say unto your brethren Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Plead with your mother, plead; for she is not my wife, neither am I her husband: and let her put away her whoredoms from her face, and her adulteries from between her breasts; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> lest I strip her naked, and set her as in the day that she was born, and make her as a wilderness, and set her as a dry land, and slay her with thirst. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will not have mercy upon her children; for they are the children of whoredoms. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For their mother hath played the harlot; she that conceived them hath done shamefully: for she said, I will go after my lovers, that give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, mine oil and my drink.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore behold, I will hedge up thy way with thorns; and I will fence her in with a wall, that she shall not find her paths. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she shall pursue after her lovers, and shall not overtake them; and she shall seek them, and shall not find them: and she shall say, I will go and return to my first husband, for then was it better with me than now. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And she did not know that I had given her the corn and the new wine and the oil, and had multiplied to her the silver and gold, which they employed for Baal. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore will I return, and take away my corn in the time thereof, and my new wine in its season, and will withdraw my wool and my flax which should have covered her nakedness. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And now will I discover her impiety in the sight of her lovers, and none shall deliver her out of my hand. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I will cause all her mirth to cease: her feasts, her new moons, and her sabbaths! and all her solemnities. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will make desolate her vine and her fig-tree, whereof she hath said, These are my rewards which my lovers have given me; and I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall eat them. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I will visit upon her the days of the Baals, wherein she burned incense to them, and decked herself with her rings and jewels, and went after her lovers, and forgot me, saith Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak to her heart. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope; and she shall sing there, as in the days of her youth and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And it shall be in that day, saith Jehovah, that thou shalt call me, My husband, and shalt call me no more, Baali; <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for I will take away the names of the Baals out of her mouth, and they shall no more be remembered by their name. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I will make a covenant for them in that day with the beasts of the field, and with the fowl of the heavens, and the creeping things of the ground; and I will break bow and sword and battle out of the land; and I will make them to lie down safely. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will betroth thee unto me for ever; and I will betroth thee unto me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in loving-kindness, and in mercies; <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and I will betroth thee unto me in faithfulness: and thou shalt know Jehovah. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, I will hear, saith Jehovah, I will hear the heavens, and they shall hear the earth; <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and the earth shall hear the corn, and the new wine, and the oil; and they shall hear Jizreel. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will sow her unto me in the land; and I will have mercy upon Lo-ruhamah; and I will say to Lo-ammi, Thou art my people; and they shall say, My God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> .</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>