<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joel 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joel 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For behold, in those days, and in that time, when I shall turn again the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I will also gather all the nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat, and I will enter into judgment with them there on account of my people and mine inheritance, Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations: and they have parted my land; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and they have cast lots for my people, and have given a boy for a harlot, and sold a girl for wine, and have drunk it. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Yea also, what have ye to do with me, O Tyre and Zidon, and all the districts of Philistia? Will ye render me a recompence? But if ye recompense me, swiftly and speedily will I bring your recompence upon your own head; <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> because ye have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried into your temples my beautiful pleasant things, <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the children of Judah and the children of Jerusalem have ye sold unto the children of the Greeks, that ye might remove them far from their border. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Behold, I will raise them up out of the place whither ye have sold them, and will bring your recompence upon your own head. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the children of Judah, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a nation far off: for Jehovah hath spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Proclaim this among the nations: prepare war, arouse the mighty men, let all the men of war draw near, let them come up. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Beat your ploughshares into swords, and your pruning-knives into spears; let the weak say, I am strong. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Haste ye and come, all ye nations round about, and gather yourselves together. Thither cause thy mighty ones to come down, O Jehovah. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let the nations rouse themselves, and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat; for there will I sit to judge all the nations round about. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe: come, get you down, for the press is full, the vats overflow; for their wickedness is great. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision! For the day of Jehovah is at hand in the valley of decision. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall withdraw their shining. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jehovah will roar from Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth shall shake: and Jehovah will be a shelter for his people, and the refuge of the children of Israel. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And ye shall know that I, Jehovah, am your God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain; and Jerusalem shall be holy, and no strangers shall pass through her any more.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, that the mountains shall drop down new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the water-courses of Judah shall flow with waters; and a fountain shall come forth from the house of Jehovah, and shall water the valley of Shittim. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom shall be a desolate wilderness, for the violence against the children of Judah, in that they have shed innocent blood in their land. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But Judah shall abide for ever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I will purge them from the blood from which I had not purged them: for Jehovah dwelleth in Zion.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>