<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I saw the Lord standing upon the altar; and he said, Smite the chapiter that the thresholds may shake; and break all of them in pieces, in the head; and I will slay the last of them with the sword: he that fleeth of them shall not get away by flight, and he that escapeth of them shall not be delivered. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Though they dig into Sheol, thence shall my hand take them; and though they climb up to the heavens, thence will I bring them down; <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and though they hide themselves on the top of Carmel, I will search and take them out thence; and though they be hid from my sight in the bottom of the sea, there will I command the serpent, and it shall bite them; <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and though they go into captivity before their enemies, there will I command the sword, and it shall slay them: and I will set mine eyes upon them for evil, and not for good. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Lord Jehovah of hosts is he that toucheth the land, and it melteth, and all that dwell therein shall mourn; and it shall wholly rise up like the Nile, and sink down as the river of Egypt. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> It is he that buildeth his upper chambers in the heavens, and hath founded his vault upon the earth; he that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth: Jehovah is his name. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Are ye not as children of the Ethiopians unto me, O children of Israel? saith Jehovah. Have not I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt? and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir? <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Behold, the eyes of the Lord Jehovah are upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from off the face of the earth: only that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, saith Jehovah. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For behold, I command, and I will shake the house of Israel to and fro among all the nations, like as one shaketh corn in a sieve; yet shall not the least grain fall upon the earth. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, who say, Evil shall not overtake nor befall us.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David which is fallen, and close up the breaches thereof; and I will raise up its ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old: <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> that they may possess the remnant of Edom, and all the nations upon whom my name is called, saith Jehovah who doeth this. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, the days come, saith Jehovah, when the ploughman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seed; and the mountains shall drop new wine, and all the hills shall melt. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will turn again the captivity of my people Israel, and they shall build the waste cities, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and drink the wine thereof; and they shall make gardens, and eat the fruit of them. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more be plucked up out of their land which I have given them, saith Jehovah thy God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> .</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>