<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus did the Lord Jehovah shew unto me; and behold, he formed locusts in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth, and behold, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it came to pass, when they had wholly eaten the grass of the land, that I said, O Lord Jehovah, forgive, I beseech thee! How shall Jacob arise? for he is small. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jehovah repented for this: It shall not be, said Jehovah. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thus did the Lord Jehovah shew unto me; and behold, the Lord Jehovah called to contend by fire; and it devoured the great deep, and ate up the inheritance. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then said I, O Lord Jehovah, cease, I beseech thee! How shall Jacob arise? for he is small. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jehovah repented for this: This also shall not be, said the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Thus did he shew unto me; and behold, the Lord stood upon a wall made by a plumb-line, with a plumb-line in his hand. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jehovah said unto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A plumb-line. And the Lord said, Behold, I will set a plumb-line in the midst of my people Israel: I will not again pass by them any more. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the high places of Isaac shall be desolated, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will arise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of the house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For thus Amos saith: Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall certainly go into captivity out of his land. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Amaziah said unto Amos, Thou seer, go, flee away into the land of Judah, and eat bread there, and prophesy there. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But prophesy not again any more at Bethel; for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is the house of the kingdom. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Amos answered and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son; but I was a herdman, and a gatherer of sycamore fruit. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jehovah took me as I followed the flock, and Jehovah said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And now hear thou the word of Jehovah: Thou sayest, Prophesy not against Israel, and utter not words against the house of Isaac. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore thus saith Jehovah: Thy wife shall be a harlot in the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land shall be divided with the line; and thou shalt die in a land that is unclean; and Israel shall certainly go into captivity, out of his land.</p>

</body>
</html>