<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kerijoth; and Moab shall die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay all the princes thereof with him, saith Jehovah. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because they have despised the law of Jehovah, and have not kept his statutes; and their lies have caused them to err, after which their fathers walked. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because they have sold the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes; <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> panting after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turning aside the way of the meek; and a man and his father will go in unto the same maid, to profane my holy name. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they lay themselves down by every altar upon clothes taken in pledge, and they drink in the house of their God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> the wine of the condemned.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was as the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; but I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for Nazarites. Is it not even thus, ye children of Israel? saith Jehovah. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink; and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, I will press upon you, as a cart presseth that is full of sheaves. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mighty deliver his soul. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and the swift of foot shall not escape, and he that rideth the horse shall not deliver his soul; <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and he that is stout-hearted among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, saith Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>