<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear this word that Jehovah hath spoken against you, children of Israel, against the whole family that I brought up from the land of Egypt, saying, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> You only have I known of all the families of the earth; therefore will I visit upon you all your iniquities. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Shall two walk together except they be agreed? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will a lion roar in the forest when he hath no prey? Will a young lion cry out of his den if he have taken nothing? <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Can a bird fall in a snare upon the earth when no gin is laid for him? Will the snare spring up from the earth when nothing at all hath been taken? <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Shall a trumpet be blown in the city, and the people not be afraid? Shall there be evil in a city, and Jehovah not have done it? <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the Lord Jehovah will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The lion hath roared, --who will not fear? The Lord Jehovah hath spoken, --who can but prophesy?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Publish in the palaces at Ashdod, and in the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble yourselves upon the mountains of Samaria, and behold the great uproar in the midst thereof, and the oppressions that are within her: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and they know not to do right, saith Jehovah, who store up violence and plunder in their palaces. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore thus saith the Lord Jehovah: An adversary! --even round about the land! And he shall bring down thy strength from thee, and thy palaces shall be pillaged. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thus saith Jehovah: Like as the shepherd rescueth out of the jaw of the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear; so shall the children of Israel be rescued that sit in Samaria in the corner of a couch, and upon the damask of a bed. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hear ye, and testify in the house of Jacob, saith the Lord Jehovah, the God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> of hosts, <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> that in the day that I shall visit the transgressions of Israel upon him, I will also punish the altars of Bethel; and the horns of the altar shall be cut off, and fall to the ground. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will smite the winter-house with the summer-house; and the houses of ivory shall perish, and many houses shall have an end, saith Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>