<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Amos 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Amos 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The words of Amos, who was among the herdmen of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, two years before the earthquake. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said, Jehovah roareth from Zion, and uttereth his voice from Jerusalem; and the pastures of the shepherds mourn, and the top of Carmel withereth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Damascus, and for four, I will not revoke my sentence, because they have threshed Gilead with threshing instruments of iron. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I will send a fire into the house of Hazael, and it shall devour the palaces of Ben-Hadad. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I will break the bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitant from the valley of Aven, and him that holdeth the sceptre from Beth-Eden; and the people of Syria shall go into captivity unto Kir, saith Jehovah. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Gazah, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because they carried away captive the whole captivity, to deliver them up to Edom. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will send a fire on the wall of Gazah, and it shall devour the palaces thereof. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod, and him that holdeth the sceptre from Ashkelon, and I will turn my hand against Ekron; and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish, saith the Lord Jehovah. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Tyre, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because they delivered up the whole captivity to Edom, and remembered not the brotherly covenant. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I will send a fire on the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour the palaces thereof. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of Edom, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because he pursued his brother with the sword, and cast off all pity; and his anger did tear continually, and he kept his wrath for ever. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will send a fire upon Teman, and it shall devour the palaces of Bozrah. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thus saith Jehovah: For three transgressions of the children of Ammon, and for four, I will not revoke its sentence; because they ripped up the women with child of Gilead, that they might enlarge their border. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour the palaces thereof, with shouting in the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And their king shall go into captivity, he and his princes together, saith Jehovah.</p>

</body>
</html>