<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Hear ye now what Jehovah saith: Arise, contend before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, ye mountains, Jehovah's controversy, and ye, unchanging foundations of the earth; for Jehovah hath a controversy with his people, and he will plead with Israel. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein have I wearied thee? testify against me. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of bondage; and I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> My people, remember now what Balak king of Moab consulted, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him, from Shittim unto Gilgal, that ye may know the righteousness of Jehovah.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherewith shall I come before Jehovah, bow myself before the high God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> Shall I come before him with burnt-offerings, with calves of a year old? <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Will Jehovah take pleasure in thousands of rams, in ten thousands of rivers of oil? Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul? <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He hath shewn thee, O man, what is good: and what doth Jehovah require of thee, but to do justly, and to love goodness, and to walk humbly with thy God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jehovah's voice crieth unto the city, and wisdom looketh on thy name. Hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Are there yet treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure which is abominable? <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Shall I be pure with the unjust balances, and with the bag of deceitful weights? <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For her rich men are full of violence, and her inhabitants speak lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore also will I make thee sick in smiting thee; I will make thee desolate because of thy sins. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Thou shalt eat, and not be satisfied, and thine emptiness shall remain in the midst of thee; and thou shalt take away, and not save; and what thou savest will I give up to the sword. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou shalt sow, but thou shalt not reap; thou shalt tread the olives, but thou shalt not anoint thee with oil; and new wine, but shalt not drink wine. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab; and ye walk in their counsels: that I should make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof a hissing; and ye shall bear the reproach of my people.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>