<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Micah 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Micah 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The word of Jehovah that came to Micah the Morasthite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hear, ye peoples, all of you; hearken, O earth, and all that is therein: and let the Lord Jehovah be witness against you, the Lord from his holy temple! <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For behold, Jehovah cometh forth out of his place, and will come down, and tread upon the high places of the earth. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the mountains shall be melted under him, and the valleys shall be cleft, as wax before the fire, as waters poured down a steep place. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For the transgression of Jacob is all this, and for the sins of the house of Israel. Whence is the transgression of Jacob? is it not from Samaria? And whence are the high places of Judah? are they not from Jerusalem? <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore will I make Samaria as a heap of the field, as plantings of a vineyard; and I will pour down the stones thereof into the valley, and I will lay bare the foundations thereof. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And all her graven images shall be beaten to pieces, and all her harlot-gifts shall be burned with fire, and all her idols will I make a desolation; for of the hire of a harlot hath she gathered them, and to a harlot's hire shall they return.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For this will I lament, and I will howl; I will go stripped and naked: I will make a wailing like the jackals, and mourning like the ostriches. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For her wounds are incurable; for it is come even unto Judah, it reacheth unto the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Tell it not in Gath, weep not at all; at Beth-le-aphrah roll thyself in the dust. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Pass away, inhabitress of Shaphir, in nakedness and shame. The inhabitress of Zaanan is not come forth for the lamentation of Beth-ezel: he will take from you its shelter. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the inhabitress of Maroth waited anxiously for good; but evil hath come down from Jehovah unto the gate of Jerusalem. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Bind the chariot to the swift steed, O inhabitress of Lachish: she was the beginning of sin to the daughter of Zion; for in thee were found the transgressions of Israel. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore shalt thou give parting-gifts to Moresheth-Gath: the houses of Achzib shall be a lie to the kings of Israel. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I will yet bring unto thee an heir, O inhabitress of Mareshah; the glory of Israel shall come even unto Adullam. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Make thee bald, and poll thee for the children of thy delights; enlarge thy baldness as the eagle, for they are gone into captivity from thee.</p>

</body>
</html>