<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nahum 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nahum 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He that dasheth in pieces is come up against thy face: keep the fortress, watch the way, make thy loins strong, fortify thy power mightily. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For Jehovah hath brought again the glory of Jacob, as the glory of Israel; for the wasters have wasted them, and marred their vine-branches. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men are in scarlet: the chariots glitter with the sheen of steel, in the day of his preparation, and the spears are brandished. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The chariots rush madly in the streets, they justle one against another in the broad ways: the appearance of them is like torches, they run like lightnings. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He bethinketh him of his nobles: they stumble in their march; they make haste to the wall thereof, and the shelter is prepared. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The gates of the rivers are opened, and the palace melteth away. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it is decreed: she shall be uncovered, she shall be led away, and her maids shall moan as with the voice of doves, drumming upon their breasts. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Nineveh hath been like a pool of water, since the day she existed, yet they flee away. ...Stand! Stand! But none looketh back. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Plunder the silver, plunder the gold; for there is no end of the splendid store of all precious vessels. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> She is empty, and void, and waste; and the heart melteth, and the knees smite together, and writhing pain is in all loins, and all their faces grow pale.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Where is now the den of the lions, and the feeding-place of the young lions, where the lion, the lioness, and the lion's whelp walked, and none made them afraid? <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The lion tore in pieces enough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled his holes with prey, and his dens with ravin. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, I am against thee, saith Jehovah of hosts: and I will burn her chariots into smoke; and the sword shall devour thy young lions, and I will cut off thy prey from the earth; and the voice of thy messengers shall no more be heard.</p>

</body>
</html>