<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nahum 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nahum 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Woe to the bloody city! It is all full of lies and violence; the prey departeth not. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The crack of the whip, and the noise of the rattling of the wheels, and of the prancing horses, and of the bounding chariots! <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The horseman springing up, and the glitter of the sword, and the flash of the spear, and a multitude of slain, and a mass of carcases, and no end of corpses: they stumble over their corpses. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> --Because of the multitude of the fornications of the well-favoured harlot, mistress of sorceries, that selleth nations through her fornications, and families through her sorceries, <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> behold, I am against thee, saith Jehovah of hosts; and I will uncover thy skirts upon thy face, and I will shew the nations thy nakedness, and the kingdoms thy shame. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will cast abominable filth upon thee, and make thee vile, and will set thee as a gazing stock. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And it shall come to pass, that all they that see thee shall flee from thee, and shall say, Nineveh is laid waste! Who will bemoan her? whence shall I seek comforters for thee?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Art thou better than No-Amon, that was situate among the rivers, that had the waters round about her, whose rampart was the sea, and of the sea was her wall? <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ethiopia was her strength, and Egypt, and it was infinite; Phut and the Libyans were her helpers. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> She too was carried away, she went into captivity: her infants also were dashed in pieces, at the top of all the streets; and they cast lots for her honourable men, and all her great men were bound with chains. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thou also shalt be drunken: thou shalt be hid; thou also shalt seek a refuge from the enemy. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All thy strongholds are like fig-trees with the first-ripe figs: if they be shaken, they even fall into the mouth of the eater. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, thy people in the midst of thee are as women: the gates of thy land are set wide open unto thine enemies; the fire devoureth thy bars. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Draw thee water for the siege, strengthen thy fortresses; go into the clay, and tread the mortar, make strong the brick-kiln. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> There shall the fire devour thee; the sword shall cut thee off; it shall devour thee like the cankerworm. Make thyself many as the cankerworm, make thyself many as the locust. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thou hast multiplied thy merchants more than the stars of the heavens; the cankerworm spreadeth himself out and flieth away. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Thy chosen men are as the locusts, and thy captains as swarms of grasshoppers, which camp in the hedges in the cold day: when the sun ariseth they flee away, and their place is not known where they are. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Thy shepherds slumber, O king of Assyria; thy nobles lie still; thy people are scattered upon the mountains, and no man gathereth them. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> There is no healing of thy breach; thy wound is grievous; all that hear the report of thee clap the hands over thee; for upon whom hath not thy wickedness passed continually?</p>

</body>
</html>