<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Habakkuk 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Habakkuk 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jehovah, how long shall I cry and thou wilt not hear? I cry out unto thee, Violence! and thou dost not save. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Why dost thou cause me to see iniquity, and lookest thou upon grievance? For spoiling and violence are before me; and there is strife, and contention riseth up. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore the law is powerless, and justice doth never go forth; for the wicked encompasseth the righteous; therefore judgment goeth forth perverted.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> See ye among the nations, and behold, and wonder marvellously; for I work a work in your days, which ye will not believe, though it be declared to you. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For behold, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and impetuous nation, which marcheth through the breadth of the earth, to possess dwelling-places that are not theirs. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They are terrible and dreadful: their judgment and their dignity proceed from themselves. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And their horses are swifter than the leopards, and are more agile than the evening wolves; and their horsemen prance proudly, and their horsemen come from afar: they fly as an eagle that hasteth to devour. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> They come all of them for violence: the crowd of their faces is forwards, and they gather captives as the sand. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yea, he scoffeth at kings, and princes are a scorn unto him; he derideth every stronghold: for he heapeth up dust, and taketh it. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then will his mind change, and he will pass on, and become guilty: this his power is become his god<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a></p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> --Art thou not from everlasting, Jehovah my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote2">*</a> my Holy One? We shall not die. Jehovah, thou hast ordained him for judgment; and thou, O Rock, hast appointed him for correction. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil, and canst not look on mischief: wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously, and keepest silence when the wicked swalloweth up a man more righteous than he? <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And thou makest men as the fishes of the sea, as the creeping things, that have no ruler over them. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He taketh up all of them with the hook, he catcheth them in his net, and gathereth them into his drag; therefore he rejoiceth and is glad: <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> therefore he sacrificeth unto his net, and burneth incense unto his drag; for by them his portion is become fat, and his meat dainty. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shall he therefore empty his net, and not spare to slay the nations continually?</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: eloah</p></div></aside>
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote2"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>