<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Haggai 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Haggai 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the seventh month, on the one and twentieth day of the month, came the word of Jehovah by the prophet Haggai, saying, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying, <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who is left among you that saw this house in its former glory? and how do ye see it now? Is it not as nothing in your eyes? <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But now be strong, Zerubbabel, saith Jehovah; and be strong, Joshua son of Jehozadak, the high priest; and be strong, all ye people of the land, saith Jehovah, and work: for I am with you, saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt, and my Spirit, remain among you: fear ye not. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land; <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come; and I will fill this house with glory, saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The latter glory of this house shall be greater than the former, saith Jehovah of hosts; and in this place will I give peace, saith Jehovah of hosts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> On the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of Jehovah by Haggai the prophet, saying, <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Thus saith Jehovah of hosts: Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying, <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If one bear holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt do touch bread, or pottage, or wine, or oil, or any food--shall it become holy? And the priests answered and said, No. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Haggai said, If one that is unclean by a dead body touch any of these, is it become unclean? And the priests answered and said, It shall be unclean. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then answered Haggai and said, So is this people, and so is this nation before me, saith Jehovah, and so is every work of their hands; and that which they offer there is unclean. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And now, I pray you, consider from this day and onward, from before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of Jehovah, <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> --before those days were, when one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were but ten; when one came to the vat to draw out fifty press-measures, there were but twenty. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I smote you with blasting and with mildew and with hail in all the work of your hands; and ye turned not to me, saith Jehovah. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Consider, I pray you, from this day and onward, from the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, from the day that the foundation of Jehovah's temple was laid, consider it. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Is the seed yet in the barn? yea, the vine, and the fig-tree, and the pomegranate, and the olive-tree have not brought forth: from this day will I bless you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the word of Jehovah came the second time unto Haggai on the four and twentieth day of the month, saying, <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth; <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I will overthrow the chariots, and those that ride therein; and the horses and their riders shall come down, every one by the sword of his brother. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> In that day, saith Jehovah of hosts, will I take thee, Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel, my servant, saith Jehovah, and will make thee as a signet; for I have chosen thee, saith Jehovah of hosts.</p>

</body>
</html>