<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I lifted up mine eyes again, and saw, and behold, there came four chariots out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second chariot black horses; <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot grisled, strong horses. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I spoke and said unto the angel that talked with me, What are these, my lord? <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the angel answered and said unto me, These are the four spirits of the heavens, which go forth from standing before the Lord of all the earth. <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> That in which are the black horses goeth forth into the north country; and the white go forth after them; and the grisled go forth towards the south country; <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the strong go forth, and seek to go that they may walk to and fro through the earth. And he said, Go, walk to and fro through the earth. And they walked to and fro through the earth. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he cried unto me, and spoke unto me, saying, See, these that go forth towards the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the word of Jehovah came unto me, saying, <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Take gifts of them of the captivity, of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah, and come thou the same day, and enter into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah, whither they are come from Babylon; <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> yea, take silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest; <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and speak unto him, saying, Thus speaketh Jehovah of hosts, saying, Behold a man whose name is the Branch; and he shall grow up from his own place, and he shall build the temple of Jehovah: <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> even he shall build the temple of Jehovah; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne; and he shall be a priest upon his throne; and the counsel of peace shall be between them both. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the crowns shall be for Helem, and for Tobijah, and for Jedaiah, and for Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the temple of Jehovah. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they that are far off shall come and build at the temple of Jehovah: and ye shall know that Jehovah of hosts hath sent me unto you. And this shall come to pass, if ye will diligently hearken to the voice of Jehovah your God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> .</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>