<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In that day there shall be a fountain opened to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sin and for uncleanness. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, saith Jehovah of hosts, that I will cut off the names of the idols out of the land, and they shall no more be remembered; and also I will cause the prophets and the unclean spirit to pass out of the land. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And it shall come to pass, if any shall yet prophesy, that his father and his mother that begat him shall say unto him, Thou shalt not live; for thou speakest lies in the name of Jehovah; and his father and his mother that begat him shall thrust him through when he prophesieth. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it shall come to pass in that day, that the prophets shall be ashamed every one of his vision, when he prophesieth; neither shall they wear a hairy mantle to deceive. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he shall say, I am no prophet, I am a tiller of the ground; for man acquired me as bondman from my youth. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And one shall say unto him, What are those wounds in thy hands? And he will say, Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, even against the man that is my fellow, saith Jehovah of hosts: smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered, and I will turn my hand upon the little ones. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And it shall come to pass in all the land, saith Jehovah, two parts therein shall be cut off and die; but the third shall be left therein. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will bring the third part into the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is tried. They shall call on my name, and I will answer them: I will say, It is my people; and they shall say, Jehovah is my God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> .</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>