<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I said, Whither goest thou? And he said unto me, To measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breadth thereof, and what is the length thereof. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And behold, the angel that talked with me went forth; and another angel went forth to meet him, <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and said unto him, Run, speak to this young man, saying, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as towns without walls for the multitude of men and cattle therein; <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and I, saith Jehovah, I will be unto her a wall of fire round about, and will be the glory in the midst of her.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Ho, ho! flee from the land of the north, saith Jehovah; for I have scattered you abroad as the four winds of the heavens, saith Jehovah. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ho! escape, Zion, that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For thus saith Jehovah of hosts: After the glory, hath he sent me unto the nations that made you a spoil; for he that toucheth you toucheth the apple of his eye. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For behold, I will shake my hand upon them, and they shall become a spoil to those that served them: and ye shall know that Jehovah of hosts hath sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Sing aloud and rejoice, daughter of Zion; for behold, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith Jehovah. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And many nations shall join themselves to Jehovah in that day, and shall be unto me for a people; and I will dwell in the midst of thee, and thou shalt know that Jehovah of hosts hath sent me unto thee. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jehovah shall inherit Judah as his portion in the holy land, and shall yet choose Jerusalem. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let all flesh be silent before Jehovah; for he is risen up out of his holy habitation.</p>

</body>
</html>