<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Zechariah 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Zechariah 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Ask of Jehovah rain in the time of the latter rain; Jehovah will make lightnings, and he will give them showers of rain, to every one grass in the field. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the teraphim have spoken vanity, and the diviners have seen a lie, and have told false dreams: they comfort in vain. Therefore they have gone away as a flock, they are in distress, because there is no shepherd. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Mine anger is kindled against the shepherds, and I will punish the he-goats; for Jehovah of hosts visiteth his flock, the house of Judah, and maketh them as his majestic horse in the battle. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> From him shall come forth the corner-stone, from him the nail, from him the battle bow, from him every exactor together.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they shall be as mighty men, treading down the mire of the streets in the battle; and they shall fight, for Jehovah is with them, and the riders on horses shall be put to shame. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph, and I will bring them back again; for I will have mercy upon them; and they shall be as though I had not cast them off: for I am Jehovah their God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> and I will answer them. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they of Ephraim shall be like a mighty man, and their hearts shall rejoice as through wine; and their children shall see it, and rejoice; their heart shall be joyful in Jehovah. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I will hiss for them, and gather them; for I have redeemed them: and they shall multiply as they used to multiply. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I will sow them among the peoples, and they shall remember me in far countries; and they shall live with their children and return. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I will bring them again out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon; and place shall not be found for them. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he shall pass through the sea of affliction, and shall smite the billows in the sea, and all the depths of the Nile shall dry up; and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down, and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart away. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I will strengthen them in Jehovah; and they shall walk in his name, saith Jehovah.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: Elohim</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>