<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Malachi 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Malachi 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The burden of the word of Jehovah to Israel by Malachi. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have loved you, saith Jehovah; but ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? saith Jehovah, and I loved Jacob, <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I hated Esau; and made his mountains a desolation, and gave his inheritance to the jackals of the wilderness. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If Edom say, We are broken down, but we will build again the ruined places, --thus saith Jehovah of hosts: They shall build, but I will throw down; and men shall call them the territory of wickedness, and the people against whom Jehovah hath indignation for ever. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And your eyes shall see it, and ye shall say, Jehovah is magnified beyond the border of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: if then I be a father, where is mine honour? and if I be a master, where is my fear? saith Jehovah of hosts unto you, priests, that despise my name. But ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of Jehovah is contemptible. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if ye offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Present it now unto thy governor: will he be pleased with thee? or will he accept thy person? saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And now, I pray you, beseech ·God<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a> that he will be gracious unto us. This hath been of your hand: will he accept any of your persons? saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who is there among you that would even shut the doors? and ye would not kindle fire on mine altar for nothing. I have no delight in you, saith Jehovah of hosts, neither will I accept an oblation at your hand. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For from the rising of the sun even unto its setting my name shall be great among the nations; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure oblation: for my name shall be great among the nations, saith Jehovah of hosts. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But ye profane it, in that ye say, The table of the Lord is polluted; and the fruit thereof, his food, is contemptible. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And ye say, Behold, what a weariness! And ye have puffed at it, saith Jehovah of hosts, and ye bring that which was torn, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye bring the oblation: should I accept this of your hand? saith Jehovah. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yea, cursed be the deceiver, who hath in his flock a male, and voweth and sacrificeth unto the Lord a corrupt thing; for I am a great King, saith Jehovah of hosts, and my name is terrible among the nations.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Hebrew: El</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>