<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For the kingdom of the heavens is like a householder who went out with the early morn to hire workmen for his vineyard. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And having agreed with the workmen for a denarius the day, he sent them into his vineyard. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And having gone out about the third hour, he saw others standing in the market-place idle; <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and to them he said, Go also ye into the vineyard, and whatsoever may be just I will give you. And they went their way. <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Again, having gone out about the sixth and ninth hour, he did likewise. <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But about the eleventh hour, having gone out, he found others standing, and says to them, Why stand ye here all the day idle? <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They say to him, Because no man has hired us. He says to them, Go also ye into the vineyard and whatsoever may be just ye shall receive. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But when the evening was come, the lord of the vineyard says to his steward, Call the workmen and pay them their wages, beginning from the last even to the first. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when they who came to work about the eleventh hour came, they received each a denarius. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when the first came, they supposed that they would receive more, and they received also themselves each a denarius. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And on receiving it they murmured against the master of the house, <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> saying, These last have worked one hour, and thou hast made them equal to us, who have borne the burden of the day and the heat. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he answering said to one of them, My friend, I do not wrong thee. Didst thou not agree with me for a denarius? <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Take what is thine and go. But it is my will to give to this last even as to thee: <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> is it not lawful for me to do what I will in my own affairs? Is thine eye evil because I am good? <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus shall the last be first, and the first last; for many are called ones, but few chosen ones.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus, going up to Jerusalem, took the twelve disciples with him apart in the way, and said to them, <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man will be delivered up to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death; <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and they will deliver him up to the nations to mock and to scourge and to crucify, and the third day he shall rise again.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then came to him the mother of the sons of Zebedee, with her sons, doing homage, and asking something of him. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said to her, What wilt thou? She says to him, Speak the word that these my two sons may sit, one on thy right hand and one on thy left in thy kingdom. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jesus answering said, Ye know not what ye ask. Can ye drink the cup which I am about to drink? They say to him, We are able. <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he says to them, Ye shall drink indeed my cup, but to sit on my right hand and on my left, is not mine to give, but to those for whom it is prepared of my Father. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the ten, having heard of it, were indignant about the two brothers. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But Jesus having called them to him, said, Ye know that the rulers of the nations exercise lordship over them, and the great exercise authority over them. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> It shall not be thus amongst you, but whosoever will be great among you, shall be your servant; <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and whosoever will be first among you, let him be your bondman; <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> as indeed the Son of man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And as they went out from Jericho a great crowd followed him. <a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And lo, two blind men, sitting by the wayside, having heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out saying, Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David. <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But the crowd rebuked them, that they might be silent. But they cried out the more, saying, Have mercy on us, Lord, Son of David. <a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Jesus, having stopped, called them and said, What will ye that I shall do to you? <a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> They say to him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened. <a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jesus, moved with compassion, touched their eyes; and immediately their eyes had sight restored to them, and they followed him.</p>

</body>
</html>