<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Jesus answering spoke to them again in parables, saying, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The kingdom of the heavens has become like a king who made a wedding feast for his son, <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and sent his bondmen to call the persons invited to the wedding feast, and they would not come. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Again he sent other bondmen, saying, Say to the persons invited, Behold, I have prepared my dinner; my oxen and my fatted beasts are killed, and all things ready; come to the wedding feast. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they made light of it, and went, one to his own land, and another to his commerce. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the rest, laying hold of his bondmen, ill-treated and slew them. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when the king heard of it he was wroth, and having sent his forces, destroyed those murderers and burned their city. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then he says to his bondmen, The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy; <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> go therefore into the thoroughfares of the highways, and as many as ye shall find invite to the wedding feast. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And those bondmen went out into the highways, and brought together all as many as they found, both evil and good; and the wedding feast was furnished with guests. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the king, having gone in to see the guests, beheld there a man not clothed with a wedding garment. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he says to him, My friend, how camest thou in here not having on a wedding garment? But he was speechless. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then said the king to the servants, Bind him feet and hands, and take him away, and cast him out into the outer darkness: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For many are called ones, but few chosen ones.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then went the Pharisees and held a council how they might ensnare him in speaking. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they send out to him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that thou art true and teachest the way of God in truth, and carest not for any one, for thou regardest not men's person; <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> tell us therefore what thou thinkest: Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not? <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But Jesus, knowing their wickedness, said, Why tempt ye me, hypocrites? <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Shew me the money of the tribute. And they presented to him a denarius. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he says to them, Whose is this image and superscription? <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> They say to him, Caesar's. Then he says to them, Pay then what is Caesar's to Caesar, and what is God's to God. <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when they heard him, they wondered, and left him, and went away.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> On that day came to him Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection; and they demanded of him, <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> saying, Teacher, Moses said, If any one die, not having children, his brother shall marry his wife and shall raise up seed to his brother. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now there were with us seven brethren; and the first having married died, and not having seed, left his wife to his brother. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In like manner also the second and the third, unto the seven. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And last of all the woman also died. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In the resurrection therefore of which of the seven shall she be wife, for all had her? <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jesus answering said to them, Ye err, not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God. <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are as angels of God in heaven. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But concerning the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read what was spoken to you by God, saying, <a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not God of the dead, but of the living. <a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when the crowds heard it they were astonished at his doctrine.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But the Pharisees, having heard that he had put the Sadducees to silence, were gathered together. <a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And one of them, a lawyer, demanded, tempting him, and saying, <a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? <a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he said to him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy understanding. <a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> This is the great and first commandment. <a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the second is like it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. <a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> On these two commandments the whole law and the prophets hang.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And the Pharisees being gathered together, Jesus demanded of them, <a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> saying, What think ye concerning the Christ? whose son is he? They say to him, David's. <a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He says to them, How then does David in Spirit call him Lord, saying, <a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> The Lord said to my Lord, Sit on my right hand until I put thine enemies under thy feet? <a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> If therefore David call him Lord, how is he his son? <a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And no one was able to answer him a word, nor did any one dare from that day to question him any more.</p>

</body>
</html>