<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished these words, he withdrew from Galilee, and came to the coasts of Judaea beyond the Jordan; <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and great crowds followed him, and he healed them there.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the Pharisees came to him tempting him, and saying, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause? <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But he answering said to them, Have ye not read that he who made them, from the beginning made them male and female, <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and said, On account of this a man shall leave father and mother, and shall be united to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh? <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> so that they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They say to him, Why then did Moses command to give a letter of divorce and to send her away? <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He says to them, Moses, in view of your hardheartedness, allowed you to put away your wives; but from the beginning it was not thus. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But I say unto you, that whosoever shall put away his wife, not for fornication, and shall marry another, commits adultery; and he who marries one put away commits adultery. <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> His disciples say to him, If the case of the man be so with his wife, it is not good to marry. <a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said to them, All cannot receive this word, but those to whom it has been given; <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for there are eunuchs which have been born thus from their mother's womb; and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs of men; and there are eunuchs who have made eunuchs of themselves for the sake of the kingdom of the heavens. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then there were brought to him little children that he might lay his hands on them and pray; but the disciples rebuked them. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and do not hinder them from coming to me; for the kingdom of the heavens is of such: <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and having laid his hands upon them, he departed thence.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And lo, one coming up said to him, Teacher, what good thing shall I do that I may have life eternal? <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said to him, What askest thou me concerning goodness? one is good. But if thou wouldest enter into life, keep the commandments. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He says to him, Which? And Jesus said, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Honour thy father and thy mother, and Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The young man says to him, All these have I kept; what lack I yet? <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus said to him, If thou wouldest be perfect, go, sell what thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the young man, having heard the word, went away grieved, for he had large possessions.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus said to his disciples, Verily I say unto you, A rich man shall with difficulty enter into the kingdom of the heavens; <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and again I say unto you, It is easier for a camel to enter a needle's eye than a rich man into the kingdom of God. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when the disciples heard it they were exceedingly astonished, saying, Who then can be saved? <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But Jesus, looking on them, said to them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible. <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then Peter answering said to him, Behold, we have left all things and have followed thee; what then shall happen to us? <a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Jesus said to them, Verily I say unto you, That ye who have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit down upon his throne of glory, ye also shall sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And every one who has left houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive a hundredfold, and shall inherit life eternal. <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But many first shall be last, and last first.</p>

</body>
</html>