<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus, <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and said to his servants, This is John the baptist: he is risen from the dead, and because of this these works of power display their force in him. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For Herod had seized John, and had bound him and put him in prison on account of Herodias the wife of Philip his brother. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For John said to him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And while desiring to kill him, he feared the crowd, because they held him for a prophet. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But when Herod's birthday was celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod; <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> whereupon he promised with oath to give her whatsoever she should ask. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But she, being set on by her mother, says, Give me here upon a dish the head of John the baptist. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the king was grieved; but on account of the oaths, and those lying at table with him, he commanded it to be given. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he sent and beheaded John in the prison; <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and his head was brought upon a dish, and was given to the damsel, and she carried it to her mother. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And his disciples came and took the body and buried it, and came and brought word to Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jesus, having heard it, went away thence by ship to a desert place apart. And the crowds having heard of it followed him on foot from the cities. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And going out he saw a great crowd, and was moved with compassion about them, and healed their infirm. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But when even was come, his disciples came to him saying, The place is desert, and much of the day time already gone by; dismiss the crowds, that they may go into the villages and buy food for themselves. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Jesus said to them, They have no need to go: give ye them to eat. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But they say to him, We have not here save five loaves and two fishes. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, Bring them here to me. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And having commanded the crowds to recline upon the grass, having taken the five loaves and the two fishes, he looked up to heaven, and blessed: and having broken the loaves, he gave themto the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And all ate and were filled, and they took up what was over and above of fragments twelve hand-baskets full. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But those that had eaten were about five thousand men, besides women and children.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And immediately he compelled the disciples to go on board ship, and to go on before him to the other side, until he should have dismissed the crowds. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And having dismissed the crowds, he went up into the mountain apart to pray. And when even was come, he was alone there, <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but the ship was already in the middle of the sea tossed by the waves, for the wind was contrary. <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But in the fourth watch of the night he went off to them, walking on the sea. <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the disciples, seeing him walking on the sea, were troubled, saying, It is an apparition. And they cried out through fear. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But Jesus immediately spoke to them, saying, Take courage; it is I: be not afraid. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Peter answering him said, Lord, if it be thou, command me to come to thee upon the waters. <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said, Come. And Peter, having descended from the ship, walked upon the waters to go to Jesus. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But seeing the wind strong he was afraid; and beginning to sink he cried out, saying, Lord, save me. <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And immediately Jesus stretched out his hand and caught hold of him, and says to him, O thou of little faith, why didst thou doubt? <a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And when they had gone up into the ship, the wind fell. <a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But those in the ship came and did homage to him, saying, Truly thou art God's Son.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And having crossed over they came to the land of Gennesaret. <a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And when the men of that place recognised him, they sent to that whole country around, and they brought to him all that were ill, <a id="c14_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and besought him that they might only touch the hem of his garment; and as many as touched were made thoroughly well.</p>

</body>
</html>