<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then the scribes and Pharisees from Jerusalem come up to Jesus, saying, <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Why do thy disciples transgress what has been delivered by the ancients? for they do not wash their hands when they eat bread. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But he answering said to them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God on account of your traditional teaching? <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For God commanded saying, Honour father and mother; and, He that speaks ill of father or mother, let him die the death. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father or mother, It is a gift, whatsoever it be by which received from me thou wouldest be profited: <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and he shall in no wise honour his father or his mother; and ye have made void the commandment of God on account of your traditional teaching. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Hypocrites! well has Esaias prophesied about you, saying, <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> This people honour me with the lips, but their heart is far away from me; <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but in vain do they worship me, teaching as teachings commandments of men.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And having called to him the crowd, he said to them, Hear and understand: <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Not what enters into the mouth defiles the man; but what goes forth out of the mouth, this defiles the man. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then his disciples, coming up, said to him, Dost thou know that the Pharisees, having heard this word, have been offended? <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he answering said, Every plant which my heavenly Father has not planted shall be rooted up. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Leave them alone; they are blind leaders of blind: but if blind lead blind, both will fall into a ditch. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Peter answering said to him, Expound to us this parable. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But he said, Are ye also still without intelligence? <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Do ye not yet apprehend, that everything that enters into the mouth finds its way into the belly, and is cast forth into the draught? <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> but the things which go forth out of the mouth come out of the heart, and those defile man. <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For out of the heart come forth evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnessings, blasphemies; <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> these are the things which defile man; but the eating with unwashen hands does not defile man.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Jesus, going forth from thence, went away into the parts of Tyre and Sidon; <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and lo, a Canaanitish woman, coming out from those borders, cried to him saying, Have pity on me, Lord, Son of David; my daughter is miserably possessed by a demon. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came to him and asked him, saying, Dismiss her, for she cries after us. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But he answering said, I have not been sent save to the lost sheep of Israel's house. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But she came and did him homage, saying, Lord, help me. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But he answering said, It is not well to take the bread of the children and cast it to the dogs. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But she said, Yea, Lord; for even the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from the table of their masters. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then Jesus answering said to her, O woman, thy faith is great. Be it to thee as thou desirest. And her daughter was healed from that hour.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Jesus, going away from thence, came towards the sea of Galilee, and he went up into the mountain and sat down there; <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and great crowds came to him, having with them lame, blind, dumb, crippled, and many others, and they cast them at his feet, and he healed them: <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> so that the crowds wondered, seeing dumb speaking, crippled sound, lame walking, and blind seeing; and they glorified the God of Israel. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But Jesus, having called his disciples to him, said, I have compassion on the crowd, because they have stayed with me already three days and they have not anything they can eat, and I would not send them away fasting lest they should faint on the way. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And his disciples say to him, Whence should we have so many loaves in the wilderness as to satisfy so great a crowd? <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jesus says to them, How many loaves have ye? But they said, Seven, and a few small fishes. <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he commanded the crowds to lie down on the ground; <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and having taken the seven loaves and the fishes, having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples, and the disciples to the crowd. <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And all ate and were filled; and they took up what was over and above of the fragments seven baskets full; <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> but they that ate were four thousand men, besides women and children. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And, having dismissed the crowds, he went on board ship and came to the borders of Magadan.</p>

</body>
</html>