<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after six days Jesus takes with him Peter, and James, and John his brother, and brings them up into a high mountain apart. <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he was transfigured before them. And his face shone as the sun, and his garments became white as the light; <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and lo, Moses and Elias appeared to them talking with him. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Peter answering said to Jesus, Lord, it is good we should be here. If thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles: for thee one, and for Moses one, and one for Elias. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and lo, a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I have found my delight: hear him. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the disciples hearing it fell upon their faces, and were greatly terrified. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jesus coming to them touched them, and said, Rise up, and be not terrified. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And lifting up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus alone. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And as they descended from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying, Tell the vision to no one, until the Son of man be risen up from among the dead. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And his disciples demanded of him saying, Why then say the scribes that Elias must first have come? <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he answering said to them, Elias indeed comes first and will restore all things. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But I say unto you that Elias has already come, and they have not known him, but have done unto him whatever they would. Thus also the Son of man is about to suffer from them. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them of John the baptist.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when they came to the crowd, a man came to him, falling on his knees before him, and saying, <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is lunatic, and suffers sorely; for often he falls into the fire and often into the water. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I brought him to thy disciples, and they were not able to heal him. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus answering said, O unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I bear with you? Bring him here to me. <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jesus rebuked him, and the demon went out from him, and the boy was healed from that hour. <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then the disciples, coming to Jesus apart, said to him, Why were not we able to cast him out? <a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he says to them, Because of your unbelief; for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say to this mountain, Be transported hence there, and it shall transport itself; and nothing shall be impossible to you. <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But this kind does not go out but by prayer and fasting.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of man is about to be delivered up into the hands of men, <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and they shall kill him; and the third day he shall be raised up. And they were greatly grieved.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when they came to Capernaum, those who received the didrachmas came to Peter and said, Does your teacher not pay the didrachmas? <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He says, Yes. And when he came into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, What dost thou think, Simon? the kings of the earth, from whom do they receive custom or tribute? from their own sons or from strangers? <a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Peter says to him, From strangers. Jesus said to him, Then are the sons free. <a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But that we may not be an offence to them, go to the sea and cast a hook, and take the first fish that comes up, and when thou hast opened its mouth thou wilt find a stater; take that and give it to them for me and thee.</p>

</body>
</html>