<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when he had come down from the mountain, great crowds followed him. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, a leper came up to him and did him homage, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou art able to cleanse me. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, I will; be cleansed. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jesus says to him, See thou tell no man, but go, shew thyself to the priest, and offer the gift which Moses ordained, for a testimony to them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he had entered into Capernaum, a centurion came to him, beseeching him, <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and saying, Lord, my servant lies paralytic in the house, suffering grievously. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jesus says to him, I will come and heal him. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not fit that thou shouldest enter under my roof; but only speak a word, and my servant shall be healed. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I also am a man under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my bondman, Do this, and he does it. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when Jesus heard it, he wondered, and said to those who followed, Verily I say unto you, Not even in Israel have I found so great faith. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But I say unto you, that many shall come from the rising and setting sun, and shall lie down at table with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of the heavens; <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> but the sons of the kingdom shall be cast out into the outer darkness: there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Jesus said to the centurion, Go, and as thou hast believed, be it to thee. And his servant was healed in that hour.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when Jesus had come to Peter's house, he saw his mother-in-law laid down and in a fever; <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and he touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she arose and served him. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when the evening was come, they brought to him many possessed by demons, and he cast out the spirits with a word, and healed all that were ill; <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> so that that should be fulfilled which was spoken through Esaias the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities and bore our diseases.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jesus, seeing great crowds around him, commanded to depart to the other side. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And a scribe came up and said to him, Teacher, I will follow thee whithersoever thou mayest go. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Jesus says to him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the heaven roosting-places; but the Son of man has not where he may lay his head. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But another of his disciples said to him, Lord, suffer me first to go away and bury my father. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Jesus said to him, Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he went on board ship and his disciples followed him; <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and behold, the water became very agitated on the sea, so that the ship was covered by the waves; but he slept. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the disciples came and awoke him, saying, Lord save: we perish. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he says to them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then, having arisen, he rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But the men were astonished, saying, What sort of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And there met him, when he came to the other side, to the country of the Gergesenes, two possessed by demons, coming out of the tombs, exceeding dangerous, so that no one was able to pass by that way. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Son of God? hast thou come here before the time to torment us? <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now there was, a great way off from them, a herd of many swine feeding; <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and the demons besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, send us away into the herd of swine. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he said to them, Go. And they, going out, departed into the herd of swine; and lo, the whole herd of swine rushed down the steep slope into the sea, and died in the waters. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But they that fed them fled, and went away into the city and related everything, and what had happened as to those possessed by demons. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And behold, the whole city went out to meet Jesus; and when they saw him, they begged him to go away out of their coasts.</p>

</body>
</html>