<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Judge not, that ye may not be judged; <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But why lookest thou on the mote that is in the eye of thy brother, but observest not the beam that is in thine eye? <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Allow me, I will cast out the mote from thine eye; and behold, the beam is in thine eye? <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine eye, and then thou wilt see clearly to cast out the mote out of the eye of thy brother. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Give not that which is holy to the dogs, nor cast your pearls before the swine, lest they trample them with their feet, and turning round rend you.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ask, and it shall be given to you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened to you. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For every one that asks receives; and he that seeks finds; and to him that knocks it shall be opened. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Or what man is there of you who, if his son shall ask of him a loaf of bread, will give him a stone; <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and if he ask a fish, will give him a serpent? <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If therefore ye, being wicked, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much rather shall your Father who is in the heavens give good things to them that ask of him?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore all things whatever ye desire that men should do to you, thus do ye also do to them; for this is the law and the prophets. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Enter in through the narrow gate, for wide the gate and broad the way that leads to destruction, and many are they who enter in through it. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For narrow the gate and straitened the way that leads to life, and they are few who find it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but within are ravening wolves. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> By their fruits ye shall know them. Do men gather a bunch of grapes from thorns, or from thistles figs? <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So every good tree produces good fruits, but the worthless tree produces bad fruits. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A good tree cannot produce bad fruits, nor a worthless tree produce good fruits. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Every tree not producing good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By their fruits then surely ye shall know them.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Not every one who says to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of the heavens, but he that does the will of my Father who is in the heavens. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Many shall say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied through thy name, and through thy name cast out demons, and through thy name done many works of power? <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and then will I avow unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, workers of lawlessness. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whoever therefore hears these my words and does them, I will liken him to a prudent man, who built his house upon the rock; <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and the rain came down, and the streams came, and the winds blew and fell upon that house, and it did not fall, for it had been founded upon the rock. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And every one who hears these my words and does not do them, he shall be likened to a foolish man, who built his house upon the sand; <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and the rain came down, and the streams came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house, and it fell, and its fall was great. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished these words, the crowds were astonished at his doctrine, <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> for he taught them as having authority, and not as their scribes.</p>

</body>
</html>