<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass when Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples, <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye know that after two days the passover takes place, and the Son of man is delivered up to be crucified. <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then the chief priests and the elders of the people were gathered together to the palace of the high priest who was called Caiaphas, <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and took counsel together in order that they might seize Jesus by subtlety and kill him; <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but they said, Not in the feast, that there be not a tumult among the people.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But Jesus being in Bethany, in Simon the leper's house, <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> a woman, having an alabaster flask of very precious ointment, came to him and poured it out upon his head as he lay at table. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But the disciples seeing it became indignant, saying, To what end was this waste? <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for this might have been sold for much and been given to the poor. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But Jesus knowing it said to them, Why do ye trouble the woman? for she has wrought a good work toward me. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For ye have the poor always with you, but me ye have not always. <a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For in pouring out this ointment on my body, she has done it for my burying. <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Verily I say to you, Wheresoever these glad tidings may be preached in the whole world, that also which this woman has done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then one of the twelve, he who was called Judas Iscariote, went to the chief priests <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and said, What are ye willing to give me, and I will deliver him up to you? And they appointed to him thirty pieces of silver. <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And from that time he sought a good opportunity that he might deliver him up.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now on the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the passover? <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, Go into the city unto such a one, and say to him, The Teacher says, My time is near, I will keep the passover in thy house with my disciples. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the passover. <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when the evening was come he lay down at table with the twelve. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And as they were eating he said, Verily I say to you, that one of you shall deliver me up. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And being exceedingly grieved they began to say to him, each of them, Is it I, Lord? <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he answering said, He that dips his hand with me in the dish, he it is who shall deliver me up. <a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The Son of man goes indeed, according as it is written concerning him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is delivered up; it were good for that man if he had not been born. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Judas, who delivered him up, answering said, Is it I, Rabbi? He says to him, Thou hast said.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And as they were eating, Jesus, having taken the bread and blessed, broke it and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat: this is my body. <a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And having taken the cup and given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it. <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For this is my blood, that of the new covenant, that shed for many for remission of sins. <a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But I say to you, that I will not at all drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of my Father. <a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And having sung a hymn, they went out to the mount of Olives.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Then saith Jesus to them, All ye shall be offended in me during this night. For it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad. <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But after that I shall be risen, I will go before you to Galilee. <a id="c26_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Peter answering said to him, If all shall be offended in thee, I will never be offended. <a id="c26_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus said to him, Verily I say to thee, that during this night, before the cock shall crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. <a id="c26_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Peter says to him, If I should needs die with thee, I will in no wise deny thee. Likewise said all the disciples also.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then Jesus comes with them to a place called Gethsemane, and says to the disciples, Sit here until I go away and pray yonder. <a id="c26_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and deeply depressed. <a id="c26_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then he says to them, My soul is very sorrowful even unto death; remain here and watch with me. <a id="c26_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And going forward a little he fell upon his face, praying and saying, My Father, if it be possible let this cup pass from me; but not as I will, but as thou wilt. <a id="c26_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he comes to the disciples and finds them sleeping, and says to Peter, Thus ye have not been able to watch one hour with me? <a id="c26_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is ready, but the flesh weak. <a id="c26_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Again going away a second time he prayed saying, My Father, if this cannot pass from me unless I drink it, thy will be done. <a id="c26_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And coming he found them again sleeping, for their eyes were heavy. <a id="c26_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And leaving them, he went away again and prayed the third time, saying the same thing. <a id="c26_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then he comes to the disciples and says to them, Sleep on now and take your rest; behold, the hour has drawn nigh, and the Son of man is delivered up into the hands of sinners. <a id="c26_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Arise, let us go; behold, he that delivers me up has drawn nigh.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And while he was yet speaking, behold, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great crowd with swords and sticks from the chief priests and elders of the people. <a id="c26_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Now he that delivered him up had given them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, he it is: seize him. <a id="c26_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And immediately coming up to Jesus he said, Hail, Rabbi, and covered him with kisses. <a id="c26_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But Jesus said to him, My friend, for what purpose art thou come? Then coming up they laid hands upon Jesus and seized him. <a id="c26_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And behold, one of those with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword, and smiting the bondman of the high priest took off his ear. <a id="c26_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Then saith Jesus to him, Return thy sword to its place; for all who take the sword shall perish by the sword. <a id="c26_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Or thinkest thou that I cannot now call upon my Father, and he will furnish me more than twelve legions of angels? <a id="c26_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> How then should the scriptures be fulfilled that thus it must be? <a id="c26_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> In that hour Jesus said to the crowds, Are ye come out as against a robber with swords and sticks to take me? I sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and ye did not seize me. <a id="c26_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> But all this is come to pass that the scriptures of the prophets may be fulfilled. Then all the disciples left him and fled.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Now they that had seized Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled. <a id="c26_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And Peter followed him at a distance, even to the palace of the high priest, and entering in sat with the officers to see the end. <a id="c26_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And the chief priests and the elders and the whole sanhedrim sought false witness against Jesus, so that they might put him to death. <a id="c26_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And they found none, though many false witnesses came forward. But at the last two false witnesses came forward <a id="c26_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> and said, He said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and in three days build it. <a id="c26_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> And the high priest standing up said to him, Answerest thou nothing? What do these witness against thee? <a id="c26_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> But Jesus was silent. And the high priest answering said to him, I adjure thee by the living God that thou tell us if thou art the Christ the Son of God. <a id="c26_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Jesus says to him, Thou hast said. Moreover, I say to you, From henceforth ye shall see the Son of man sitting at the right hand of power, and coming on the clouds of heaven. <a id="c26_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He has blasphemed: what need have we any more of witnesses? behold, now ye have heard the blasphemy. <a id="c26_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> What think ye? And they answering said, He is liable to the penalty of death. <a id="c26_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Then they spit in his face, and buffeted him, and some struck him with the palms of their hand, <a id="c26_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> saying, Prophesy to us, Christ, Who is it who struck thee?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> But Peter sat without in the palace-court; and a maid came to him, saying, And thou wast with Jesus the Galilaean. <a id="c26_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> But he denied before all, saying, I do not know what thou sayest. <a id="c26_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> And when he had gone out into the entrance, another maid saw him, and says to those there, This man also was with Jesus the Nazaraean. <a id="c26_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> And again he denied with an oath: I do not know the man. <a id="c26_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> And after a little, those who stood there, coming to him, said to Peter, Truly thou too art of them, for also thy speech makes thee manifest. <a id="c26_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> Then he began to curse and to swear, I know not the man. And immediately the cock crew. <a id="c26_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> And Peter remembered the word of Jesus, who had said to him, Before the cock crow thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went forth without, and wept bitterly.</p>

</body>
</html>