<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Book of the generation of Jesus Christ, Son of David, Son of Abraham. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Juda and his brethren; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and Juda begat Phares and Zara of Thamar; and Phares begat Esrom, and Esrom begat Aram, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and Aram begat Aminadab, and Aminadab begat Naasson, and Naasson begat Salmon, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and Salmon begat Booz of Rachab; and Booz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse, <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Jesse begat David the king. And David begat Solomon, of her that had been the wife of Urias; <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and Solomon begat Roboam, and Roboam begat Abia, and Abia begat Asa, <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and Asa begat Josaphat, and Josaphat begat Joram, and Joram begat Ozias, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and Ozias begat Joatham, and Joatham begat Achaz, and Achaz begat Ezekias, <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and Ezekias begat Manasses, and Manasses begat Amon, and Amon begat Josias, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Josias begat Jechonias and his brethren, at the time of the carrying away of Babylon. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And after the carrying away of Babylon, Jechonias begat Salathiel, and Salathiel begat Zorobabel, <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and Zorobabel begat Abiud, and Abiud begat Eliakim, and Eliakim begat Azor, <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Azor begat Sadoc, and Sadoc begat Achim, and Achim begat Eliud, <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Eliud begat Eliazar, and Eliazar begat Matthan, and Matthan begat Jacob, <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the generations, therefore, from Abraham to David were fourteen generations; and from David until the carrying away of Babylon, fourteen generations; and from the carrying away of Babylon unto the Christ, fourteen generations.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now the birth of Jesus Christ was thus: His mother, Mary, that is, having been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child of the Holy Spirit. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man, and unwilling to expose her publicly, purposed to have put her away secretly; <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> but while he pondered on these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, fear not to take to thee Mary, thy wife, for that which is begotten in her is of theHoly Spirit. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now all this came to pass that that might be fulfilled which was spoken by the Lord, through the prophet, saying, <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Behold, the virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which is, being interpreted, 'God with us.' <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But Joseph, having awoke up from his sleep, did as the angel of the Lord had enjoined him, and took to him his wife, <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and knew her not until she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name Jesus.</p>

</body>
</html>