<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Jesus was carried up into the wilderness by the Spirit to be tempted of the devil: <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and having fasted forty days and forty nights, afterwards he hungered. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the tempter coming up to him said, If thou be Son of God, speak, that these stones may become loaves of bread. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But he answering said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word which goes out through God's mouth. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the devil takes him to the holy city, and sets him upon the edge of the temple, <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and says to him, If thou be Son of God cast thyself down; for it is written, He shall give charge to his angels concerning thee, and on their hands shall they bear thee, lest in anywise thou strike thy foot against a stone. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus said to him, It is again written, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Again the devil takes him to a very high mountain, and shews him all the kingdoms of the world, and their glory, <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and says to him, All these things will I give thee if, falling down, thou wilt do me homage. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then says Jesus to him, Get thee away, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt do homage to the Lord thy God, and him alone shalt thou serve. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then the devil leaves him, and behold, angels came and ministered to him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But having heard that John was delivered up, he departed into Galilee: <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and having left Nazareth, he went and dwelt at Capernaum, which is on the sea-side in the borders of Zabulon and Nepthalim, <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> that that might be fulfilled which was spoken through Esaias the prophet, saying, <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Land of Zabulon and land of Nepthalim, way of the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations: <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> --the people sitting in darkness has seen a great light, and to those sitting in the country and shadow of death, to them has light sprung up. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> From that time began Jesus to preach and to say, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn nigh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And walking by the sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers; <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and he says to them, Come after me, and I will make you fishers of men. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they, having left their trawl-nets, immediately followed him. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And going on thence he saw other two brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the ship with Zebedee their father, mending their trawl-nets, and he called them; <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and they, having left the ship and their father, immediately followed him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus went round the whole of Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the glad tidings of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every bodily weakness among the people. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And his fame went out into the whole of Syria, and they brought to him all that were ill, suffering under various diseases and pains, and those possessed by demons, and lunatics, and paralytics; and he healed them. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And great crowds followed him from Galilee, and Decapolis, and Jerusalem, and Judaea, and beyond the Jordan.</p>

</body>
</html>