<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time Jesus went on the sabbath through the cornfields; and his disciples were hungry, and began to pluck the ears and to eat. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But the Pharisees, seeing it, said to him, Behold, thy disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on sabbath. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But he said to them, Have ye not read what David did when he was hungry, and they that were with him? <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> How he entered into the house of God, and ate the shewbread, which it was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those with him, but for the priests only? <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Or have ye not read in the law that on the sabbaths the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and are blameless? <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I say unto you, that there is here what is greater than the temple. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if ye had known what is: I will have mercy and not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned the guiltless. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the Son of man is Lord of the sabbath. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And, going away from thence, he came into their synagogue. <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And behold, there was a man having his hand withered. And they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath? that they might accuse him. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But he said to them, What man shall there be of you who has one sheep, and if this fall into a pit on the sabbath, will not lay hold of it and raise it up? <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> How much better then is a man than a sheep! So that it is lawful to do well on the sabbath. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then he says to the man, Stretch out thy hand. And he stretched it out, and it was restored sound as the other.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But the Pharisees, having gone out, took counsel against him, how they might destroy him. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But Jesus knowing it, withdrew thence, and great crowds followed him; and he healed them all: <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and charged them strictly that they should not make him publicly known: <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> that that might be fulfilled which was spoken through Esaias the prophet, saying, <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, in whom my soul has found its delight. I will put my Spirit upon him, and he shall shew forth judgment to the nations. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He shall not strive or cry out, nor shall any one hear his voice in the streets; <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> a bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench, until he bring forth judgment unto victory; <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and on his name shall the nations hope.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then was brought to him one possessed by a demon, blind and dumb, and he healed him, so that the dumb man spake and saw. <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And all the crowds were amazed and said, Is this man the Son of David? <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But the Pharisees, having heard it, said, This man does not cast out demons, but by Beelzebub, prince of demons. <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and every city or house divided against itself will not subsist. <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself; how then shall his kingdom subsist? <a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, your sons, by whom do they cast them out? For this reason they shall be your judges. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if I by the Spirit of God cast out demons, then indeed the kingdom of God is come upon you. <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Or how can any one enter into the house of the strong man and plunder his goods, unless first he bind the strong man? and then he will plunder his house. <a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He that is not with me is against me, and he that gathers not with me scatters. <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For this reason I say unto you, Every sin and injurious speaking shall be forgiven to men, but speaking injuriously of the Spirit shall not be forgiven to men. <a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And whosoever shall have spoken a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him; but whosoever shall speak against the Holy Spirit, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this age nor in the coming one. <a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Either make the tree good, and its fruit good; or make the tree corrupt, and its fruit corrupt. For from the fruit the tree is known. <a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Offspring of vipers! how can ye speak good things, being wicked? For of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. <a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The good man out of the good treasure brings forth good things; and the wicked man out of the wicked treasure brings forth wicked things. <a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But I say unto you, that every idle word which men shall say, they shall render an account of it in judgment-day: <a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> for by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then answered him some of the scribes and Pharisees, saying, Teacher, we desire to see a sign from thee. <a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But he, answering, said to them, A wicked and adulterous generation seeks after a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it save the sign of Jonas the prophet. <a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For even as Jonas was in the belly of the great fish three days and three nights, thus shall the Son of man be in the heart of the earth three days and three nights. <a id="c12_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Ninevites shall stand up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and behold, more than Jonas is here. <a id="c12_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> A queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it; for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, more than Solomon is here. <a id="c12_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> But when the unclean spirit has gone out of the man, he goes through dry places, seeking rest, and does not find it. <a id="c12_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then he says, I will return to my house whence I came out; and having come, he finds it unoccupied, swept, and adorned. <a id="c12_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then he goes and takes with himself seven other spirits worse than himself, and entering in, they dwell there; and the last condition of that man becomes worse than the first. Thus shall it be to this wicked generation also.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> But while he was yet speaking to the crowds, behold, his mother and his brethren stood without, seeking to speak to him. <a id="c12_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren are standing without, seeking to speak to thee. <a id="c12_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> But he answering said to him that spoke to him, Who is my mother, and who are my brethren? <a id="c12_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And, stretching out his hand to his disciples, he said, Behold my mother and my brethren; <a id="c12_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> for whosoever shall do the will of my Father who is in the heavens, he is my brother, and sister, and mother.</p>

</body>
</html>