<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass when Jesus had finished commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and preach in their cities. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But John, having heard in the prison the works of the Christ, sent by his disciples, <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and said to him, Art thou the coming one? or are we to wait for another? <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Jesus answering said to them, Go, report to John what ye hear and see. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Blind men see and lame walk; lepers are cleansed, and deaf hear; and dead are raised, and poor have glad tidings preached to them: <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and blessed is whosoever shall not be offended in me.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But as they went away, Jesus began to say to the crowds concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness to see? a reed moved about by the wind? <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But what went ye out to see? a man clothed in delicate raiment? behold, those who wear delicate things are in the houses of kings. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But what went ye out to see? a prophet? Yea, I say to you, and more than a prophet: <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Verily I say to you, that there is not arisen among the born of women a greater than John the baptist. But he who is a little one in the kingdom of the heavens is greater than he. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But from the days of John the baptist until now, the kingdom of the heavens is taken by violence, and the violent seize on it. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For all the prophets and the law have prophesied unto John. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if ye will receive it, this is Elias, who is to come. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He that has ears to hear, let him hear.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But to whom shall I liken this generation? It is like children sitting in the markets, which, calling to their companions, <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> say, We have piped to you, and ye have not danced: we have mourned to you, and ye have not wailed. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For John has come neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a demon. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The Son of man has come eating and drinking, and they say, Behold, a man that is eating and wine-drinking, a friend of tax-gatherers, and of sinners: --and wisdom has been justified by her children. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then began he to reproach the cities in which most of his works of power had taken place, because they had not repented. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Woe to thee, Chorazin! woe to thee Bethsaida! for if the works of power which have taken place in you, had taken place in Tyre and Sidon, they had long ago repented in sackcloth and ashes. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I say to you, that it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in judgment-day than for you. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And thou, Capernaum, who hast been raised up to heaven, shalt be brought down even to hades. For if the works of power which have taken place in thee, had taken place in Sodom, it had remained until this day. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But I say to you, that it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in judgment-day than for thee.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> At that time, Jesus answering said, I praise thee, Father, Lord of the heaven and of the earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them to babes. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Yea, Father, for thus has it been well-pleasing in thy sight. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> All things have been delivered to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son but the Father, nor does any one know the Father, but the Son, and he to whom the Son may be pleased to reveal him. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Come to me, all ye who labour and are burdened, and I will give you rest. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me; for I am meek and lowly in heart; and ye shall find rest to your souls; <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.</p>

</body>
</html>