<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then shall the kingdom of the heavens be made like to ten virgins that having taken their torches, went forth to meet the bridegroom. <a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And five of them were prudent and five foolish. <a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They that were foolish took their torches and did not take oil with them; <a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but the prudent took oil in their vessels with their torches. <a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now the bridegroom tarrying, they all grew heavy and slept. <a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But in the middle of the night there was a cry, Behold, the bridegroom; go forth to meet him. <a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their torches. <a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the foolish said to the prudent, Give us of your oil, for our torches are going out. <a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But the prudent answered saying, We cannot, lest it might not suffice for us and for you. Go rather to those that sell, and buy for yourselves. <a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But as they went away to buy, the bridegroom came, and the ones that were ready went in with him to the wedding feast, and the door was shut. <a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Afterwards come also the rest of the virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us; <a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> but he answering said, Verily I say unto you, I do not know you. <a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Watch therefore, for ye know not the day nor the hour.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For it is as if a man going away out of a country called his own bondmen and delivered to them his substance. <a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to each according to his particular ability, and immediately went away out of the country. <a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he that had received the five talents went and trafficked with them, and made five other talents. <a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> In like manner also he that had received the two, he also gained two others. <a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But he that had received the one went and dug in the earth, and hid the money of his lord. <a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And after a long time the lord of those bondmen comes and reckons with them. <a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he that had received the five talents came to him and brought five other talents, saying, My lord, thou deliveredst me five talents; behold, I have gained five other talents besides them. <a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> His lord said to him, Well, good and faithful bondman, thou wast faithful over a few things, I will set thee over many things: enter into the joy of thy lord. <a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he also that had received the two talents came to him and said, My lord, thou deliveredst me two talents; behold, I have gained two other talents besides them. <a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> His lord said to him, Well, good and faithful bondman, thou wast faithful over a few things, I will set thee over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. <a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he also that had received the one talent coming to him said, My lord, I knew thee that thou art a hard man, reaping where thou hadst not sowed, and gathering from where thou hadst not scattered, <a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and being afraid I went away and hid thy talent in the earth; behold, thou hast that which is thine. <a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And his lord answering said to him, Wicked and slothful bondman, thou knewest that I reap where I had not sowed, and gather from where I had not scattered; <a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> thou oughtest then to have put my money to the money-changers, and when I came I should have got what is mine with interest. <a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Take therefore the talent from him, and give it to him that has the ten talents: <a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> for to every one that has shall be given, and he shall be in abundance; but from him that has not, that even which he has shall be taken from him. <a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And cast out the useless bondman into the outer darkness; there shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But when the Son of man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then shall he sit down upon his throne of glory, <a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and all the nations shall be gathered before him; and he shall separate them from one another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats; <a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and he will set the sheep on his right hand, and the goats on his left. <a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then shall the King say to those on his right hand, Come, blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the world's foundation: <a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> for I hungered, and ye gave me to eat; I thirsted, and ye gave me to drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in; <a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> naked, and ye clothed me; I was ill, and ye visited me; I was in prison, and ye came to me. <a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Then shall the righteous answer him saying, Lord, when saw we thee hungering, and nourished thee; or thirsting, and gave thee to drink? <a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and when saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in; or naked, and clothed thee? <a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and when saw we thee ill, or in prison, and came to thee? <a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the King answering shall say to them, Verily, I say to you, Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it to me. <a id="c25_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then shall he say also to those on the left, Go from me, cursed, into eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels: <a id="c25_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> for I hungered, and ye gave me not to eat; I thirsted, and ye gave me not to drink; <a id="c25_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> I was a stranger, and ye took me not in; naked, and ye did not clothe me; ill, and in prison, and ye did not visit me. <a id="c25_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then shall they also answer saying, Lord, when saw we thee hungering, or thirsting, or a stranger, or naked, or ill, or in prison, and have not ministered to thee? <a id="c25_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then shall he answer them saying, Verily I say to you, Inasmuch as ye have not done it to one of these least, neither have ye done it to me. <a id="c25_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And these shall go away into eternal punishment, and the righteous into life eternal.</p>

</body>
</html>