<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when it was morning all the chief priests and the elders of the people took counsel against Jesus so that they might put him to death. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And having bound him they led him away, and delivered him up to Pontius Pilate, the governor. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Judas, who delivered him up, seeing that he had been condemned, filled with remorse, returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders, <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> saying, I have sinned in having delivered up guiltless blood. But they said, What is that to us? see thou to that. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And having cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, he left the place, and went away and hanged himself. <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the chief priests took the pieces of silver and said, It is not lawful to cast them into the Corban, since it is the price of blood. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And having taken counsel, they bought with them the field of the potter for a burying-ground for strangers. <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wherefore that field has been called Blood-field unto this day. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then was fulfilled that which was spoken through Jeremias the prophet, saying, And I took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was set a price on, whom they who were of the sons of Israel had set a price on, <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and they gave them for the field of the potter, according as the Lord commanded me.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But Jesus stood before the governor. And the governor questioned him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And Jesus said to him, Thou sayest. <a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when he was accused of the chief priests and the elders, he answered nothing. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then says Pilate to him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee? <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he answered him not so much as one word, so that the governor wondered exceedingly. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release one prisoner to the crowd, whom they would. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they had then a notable prisoner, named Barabbas. <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They therefore being gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom will ye that I release to you, Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ? <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he knew that they had delivered him up through envy. <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But, as he was sitting on the judgment-seat, his wife sent to him, saying, Have thou nothing to do with that righteous man; for I have suffered to-day many things in a dream because of him. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowds that they should beg for Barabbas, and destroy Jesus. <a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the governor answering said to them, Which of the two will ye that I release unto you? And they said, Barabbas. <a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Pilate says to them, What then shall I do with Jesus, who is called Christ? They all say, Let him be crucified. <a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the governor said, What evil then has he done? But they cried more than ever, saying, Let him be crucified. <a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Pilate, seeing that it availed nothing, but that rather a tumult was arising, having taken water, washed his hands before the crowd, saying, I am guiltless of the blood of this righteous one: see ye to it. <a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And all the people answering said, His blood be on us and on our children.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then he released to them Barabbas; but Jesus, having scourged him, he delivered up that he might be crucified. <a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then the soldiers of the governor, having taken Jesus with them to the praetorium, gathered against him the whole band, <a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and having taken off his garment, put on him a scarlet cloak; <a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and having woven a crown out of thorns, they put it on his head, and a reed in his right hand; and, bowing the knee before him, they mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews! <a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And having spit upon him, they took the reed and beat him on his head. <a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And when they had mocked him, they took the cloak off him, and put his own clothes on him, and led him away to crucify. <a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And as they went forth they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name; him they compelled to go with them that he might bear his cross.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And having come to a place called Golgotha, which means Place of a skull, <a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> they gave to him to drink vinegar mingled with gall; and having tasted it, he would not drink. <a id="c27_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And having crucified him, they parted his clothes amongst themselves, casting lots. <a id="c27_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And sitting down, they kept guard over him there. <a id="c27_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they set up over his head his accusation written: This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. <a id="c27_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then are crucified with him two robbers, one on the right hand and one on the left. <a id="c27_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But the passers-by reviled him, shaking their heads <a id="c27_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and saying, Thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, save thyself. If thou art Son of God, descend from the cross. <a id="c27_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And in like manner the chief priests also, mocking, with the scribes and elders, said, <a id="c27_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> He saved others, himself he cannot save. He is King of Israel: let him descend now from the cross, and we will believe on him. <a id="c27_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> He trusted upon God; let him save him now if he will have him. For he said, I am Son of God. <a id="c27_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And the robbers also who had been crucified with him cast the same reproaches on him. <a id="c27_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour; <a id="c27_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> but about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? <a id="c27_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And some of those who stood there, when they heard it, said, This man calls for Elias. <a id="c27_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And immediately one of them running and getting a sponge, having filled it with vinegar and fixed it on a reed, gave him to drink. <a id="c27_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> But the rest said, Let be; let us see if Elias comes to save him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Jesus, having again cried with a loud voice, gave up the ghost. <a id="c27_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And lo, the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom, and the earth was shaken, and the rocks were rent, <a id="c27_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> and the tombs were opened; and many bodies of the saints fallen asleep arose, <a id="c27_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and going out of the tombs after his arising, entered into the holy city and appeared unto many. <a id="c27_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> But the centurion, and they who were with him on guard over Jesus, seeing the earthquake and the things that took place, feared greatly, saying, Truly this man was Son of God. <a id="c27_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And there were there many women beholding from afar off, who had followed Jesus from Galilee ministering to him, <a id="c27_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> among whom was Mary of Magdala, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Now when even was come there came a rich man of Arimathaea, his name Joseph, who also himself was a disciple to Jesus. <a id="c27_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> He, going to Pilate, begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be given up. <a id="c27_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And Joseph having got the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth, <a id="c27_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> and laid it in his new tomb which he had hewn in the rock; and having rolled a great stone to the door of the tomb, went away. <a id="c27_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> But Mary of Magdala was there, and the other Mary, sitting opposite the sepulchre. <a id="c27_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> Now on the morrow, which is after the preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees came together to Pilate, <a id="c27_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> saying, Sir, we have called to mind that that deceiver said when he was still alive, After three days I arise. <a id="c27_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Command therefore that the sepulchre be secured until the third day, lest his disciples should come and steal him away, and say to the people, He is risen from the dead; and the last error shall be worse than the first. <a id="c27_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> And Pilate said to them, Ye have a watch: go, secure it as well as ye know how. <a id="c27_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And they went and secured the sepulchre, having sealed the stone, with the watch besides.</p>

</body>
</html>