<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now late on sabbath, as it was the dusk of the next day after sabbath, came Mary of Magdala and the other Mary to look at the sepulchre. <a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, there was a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord, descending out of heaven, came and rolled away the stone and sat upon it. <a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And his look was as lightning, and his clothing white as snow. <a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And for fear of him the guards trembled and became as dead men. <a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the angel answering said to the women, Fear not ye, for I know that ye seek Jesus the crucified one. <a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is not here, for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay. <a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And go quickly and say to his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and behold, he goes before you into Galilee, there shall ye see him. Behold, I have told you. <a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And going out quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, they ran to bring his disciples word. <a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And as they went to bring his disciples word, behold also, Jesus met them, saying, Hail! And they coming up took him by the feet, and did him homage. <a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Jesus says to them, Fear not; go, bring word to my brethren that they go into Galilee, and there they shall see me.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And as they went, behold, some of the watch went into the city, and brought word to the chief priests of all that had taken place. <a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And having assembled with the elders, and having taken counsel, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers, <a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> saying, Say that his disciples coming by night stole him while we were sleeping. <a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And if this should come to the hearing of the governor, we will persuade him, and save you from all anxiety. <a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they took the money and did as they had been taught. And this report is current among the Jews until this day.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But the eleven disciples went into Galilee to the mountain which Jesus had appointed them. <a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when they saw him, they did homage to him: but some doubted. <a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jesus coming up spoke to them, saying, All power has been given me in heaven and upon earth. <a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptising them to the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit; <a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have enjoined you. And behold, I am with you all the days, until the completion of the age.</p>

</body>
</html>