<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Matthew 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Matthew 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now in those days comes John the baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Judaea, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and saying, Repent, for the kingdom of the heavens has drawn nigh. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this is he who has been spoken of through Esaias the prophet, saying, Voice of him that crieth in the wilderness: prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight his paths. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And John himself had his garment of camel's hair, and a leathern girdle about his loins, and his nourishment was locusts and wild honey. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all Judaea, and all the country round the Jordan, <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and were baptised by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But seeing many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, Offspring of vipers, who has forewarned you to flee from the coming wrath? <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Produce therefore fruit worthy of repentance. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And do not think to say within yourselves, We have Abraham for our father; for I say unto you, that God is able of these stones to raise up children to Abraham. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And already the axe is applied to the root of the trees; every tree therefore not producing good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I indeed baptise you with water to repentance, but he that comes after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not fit to bear; he shall baptise you with the Holy Spirit and fire; <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> whose winnowing fan is in his hand, and he shall thoroughly purge his threshing-floor, and shall gather his wheat into the garner, but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then comes Jesus from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptised of him; <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but John urgently forbad him, saying, I have need to be baptised of thee; and comest thou to me? <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But Jesus answering said to him, Suffer it now; for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffers him. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jesus, having been baptised, went up straightway from the water, and lo, the heavens were opened to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming upon him: <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and behold, a voice out of the heavens saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I have found my delight.</p>

</body>
</html>