<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And immediately in the morning the chief priests, having taken counsel with the elders and scribes and the whole sanhedrim, bound Jesus and carried him away, and delivered him up to Pilate. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered and said to him, Thou sayest. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the chief priests accused him urgently. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing? See of how many things they bear witness against thee. <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But Jesus still answered nothing, so that Pilate marvelled. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But at the feast he released to them one prisoner, whomsoever they begged of him. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now there was the person named Barabbas bound with those who had made insurrection with him, and that had committed murder in the insurrection. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the crowd crying out began to beg that he would do to them as he had always done. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But Pilate answered them saying, Will ye that I release to you the King of the Jews? <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for he knew that the chief priests had delivered him up through envy. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the chief priests stirred up the crowd that he might rather release Barabbas to them. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Pilate answering said to them again, What will ye then that I do to him whom ye call King of the Jews? <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they cried out again, Crucify him. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Pilate said to them, What evil then has he done? But they cried out the more urgently, Crucify him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Pilate, desirous of contenting the crowd, released to them Barabbas, and delivered up Jesus, when he had scourged him, that he might be crucified. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the soldiers led him away into the court which is called the praetorium, and they call together the whole band. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they clothe him with purple, and bind round on him a crown of thorns which they had plaited. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews! <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they struck his head with a reed, and spat on him, and, bending the knee, did him homage. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when they had mocked him, they took the purple off him, and put his own clothes on him; and they lead him out that they may crucify him. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they compel to go with them a certain passer-by, Simon, a Cyrenian, coming from the field, the father of Alexander and Rufus, that he might carry his cross.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they bring him to the place called Golgotha, which, being interpreted, is Place of a skull. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they offered him wine to drink medicated with myrrh; but he did not take it. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And having crucified him, they part his clothes amongst themselves, casting lots on them, what each one should take. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And it was the third hour, and they crucified him. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the superscription of what he was accused of was written up: The King of the Jews. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And with him they crucify two robbers, one on his right hand, and one on his left. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the scripture was fulfilled which says, And he was reckoned with the lawless. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they that passed by reviled him, shaking their heads, and saying, Aha, thou that destroyest the temple and buildest it in three days, <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> save thyself, and descend from the cross. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> In like manner the chief priests also, with the scribes, mocking with one another, said, He saved others; himself he cannot save. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Let the Christ the King of Israel descend now from the cross, that we may see and may believe. And they that were crucified with him reproached him.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when the sixth hour was come, there came darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour; <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? <a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And some of those who stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calls for Elias. <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And one, running and filling a sponge with vinegar, fixed it on a reed, and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone, let us see if Elias comes to take him down. <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Jesus, having uttered a loud cry, expired. <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the centurion who stood by over against him, when he saw that he had expired having thus cried out, said, Truly this man was Son of God. <a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And there were women also looking on from afar off, among whom were both Mary of Magdala, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, and Salome; <a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> who also, when he was in Galilee, followed him and ministered to him; and many others who came up with him to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And when it was already evening, since it was the preparation, that is, the day before a sabbath, <a id="c15_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Joseph of Arimathaea, an honourable councillor, who also himself was awaiting the kingdom of God, coming, emboldened himself and went in to Pilate and begged the body of Jesus. <a id="c15_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Pilate wondered if he were already dead; and having called to him the centurion, he inquired of him if he had long died. <a id="c15_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And when he knew from the centurion, he granted the body to Joseph. <a id="c15_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And having bought fine linen, and having taken him down, he swathed him in the fine linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was cut out of rock, and rolled a stone to the door of the sepulchre. <a id="c15_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And Mary of Magdala and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was put.</p>

</body>
</html>