<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In those days, there being again a great crowd, and they having nothing that they could eat, having called his disciples to him, he says to them, <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have compassion on the crowd, because they have stayed with me already three days and they have not anything they can eat, <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and if I should dismiss them to their home fasting, they will faint on the way; for some of them are come from far. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And his disciples answered him, Whence shall one be able to satisfy these with bread here in a desert place? <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he asked them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he commanded the crowd to sit down on the ground. And having taken the seven loaves, he gave thanks, and broke them and gave them to his disciples, that they might set them before them; and they set them before the crowd. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they had a few small fishes, and having blessed them, he desired these also to be set before them. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they ate and were satisfied. And they took up of fragments that remained seven baskets. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they that had eaten were about four thousand; and he sent them away.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And immediately going on board ship with his disciples, he came into the parts of Dalmanutha. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Pharisees went out and began to dispute against him, seeking from him a sign from heaven, tempting him. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And groaning in his spirit, he says, Why does this generation seek a sign? Verily I say unto you, A sign shall in no wise be given to this generation. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he left them, and going again on board ship, went away to the other side. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they forgot to take bread, and save one loaf, they had not any with them in the ship. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the leaven of Herod. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And they reasoned with one another, saying, It is because we have no bread. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus knowing it, says to them, Why reason ye because ye have no bread? Do ye not yet perceive nor understand? Have ye your heart yet hardened? <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Having eyes, see ye not? and having ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember? <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many hand-baskets full of fragments took ye up? They say to him, Twelve. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when the seven for the four thousand, the filling of how many baskets of fragments took ye up? And they said, Seven. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said to them, How do ye not yet understand?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he comes to Bethsaida; and they bring him a blind man, and beseech him that he might touch him. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And taking hold of the hand of the blind man he led him forth out of the village, and having spit upon his eyes, he laid his hands upon him, and asked him if he beheld anything. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And having looked up, he said, I behold men, for I see them, as trees, walking. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then he laid his hands again upon his eyes, and he saw distinctly, and was restored and saw all things clearly. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he sent him to his house, saying, Neither enter into the village, nor tell it to any one in the village.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Jesus went forth and his disciples, into the villages of Caesarea-Philippi. And by the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them, Who do men say that I am? <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they answered him, saying, John the baptist; and others, Elias; but others, One of the prophets. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he asked them, But ye, who do ye say that I am? And Peter answering says to him, Thou art the Christ. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he charged them straitly, in order that they should tell no man about him. <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he began to teach them that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and of the chief priests and of the scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he spoke the thing openly. And Peter, taking him to him, began to rebuke him. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But he, turning round and seeing his disciples, rebuked Peter, saying, Get away behind me, Satan, for thy mind is not on the things that are of God, but on the things that are of men. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And having called the crowd with his disciples, he said to them, Whoever desires to come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow me. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> For whosoever shall desire to save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's shall save it. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For what shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and suffer the loss of his soul? <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> for what should a man give in exchange for his soul? <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him shall the Son of man also be ashamed when he shall come in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.</p>

</body>
</html>