<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was there a man having his hand dried up. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they watched him if he would heal him on the sabbath, that they might accuse him. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he says to the man who had his hand dried up, Rise up and come into the midst. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he says to them, Is it lawful on the sabbath to do good or to do evil, to save life or to kill? But they were silent. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And looking round upon them with anger, distressed at the hardening of their heart, he says to the man, Stretch out thy hand. And he stretched it out, and his hand was restored. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Pharisees going out straightway with the Herodians took counsel against him, how they might destroy him. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea; and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea, <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea and beyond the Jordan; and they of around Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, having heard what things he did, came to him. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he spoke to his disciples, in order that a little ship should wait upon him on account of the crowd, that they might not press upon him. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he healed many, so that they beset him that they might touch him, as many as had plagues. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the unclean spirits, when they beheld him, fell down before him, and cried saying, Thou art the Son of God. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he rebuked them much, that they might not make him manifest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he goes up into the mountain, and calls whom he himself would, and they went to him. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he appointed twelve that they might be with him, and that he might send them to preach, <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and to have power to heal diseases, and to cast out demons. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he gave to Simon the surname of Peter; <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James, and he gave them the surname of Boanerges, that is, Sons of thunder; <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Cananaean, <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and Judas Iscariote, who also delivered him up. And they come to the house. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And again a crowd comes together, so that they cannot even eat bread. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And his relatives having heard of it went out to lay hold on him, for they said, He is out of his mind.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the scribes who had come down from Jerusalem said, He has Beelzebub, and, By the prince of the demons he casts out demons. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And having called them to him, he said to them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And if a kingdom has become divided against itself, that kingdom cannot subsist. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And if a house has become divided against itself, that house cannot subsist. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And if Satan rise up against himself, and is divided, he cannot subsist, but has an end. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But no one can, having entered into his house, plunder the goods of the strong man unless he first bind the strong man, and then he will plunder his house. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Verily I say unto you, that all sins shall be forgiven to the sons of men, and all the injurious speeches with which they may speak injuriously; <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but whosoever shall speak injuriously against the Holy Spirit, to eternity has no forgiveness; but lies under the guilt of an everlasting sin; <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> --because they said, He has an unclean spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And his brethren and his mother come, and standing without sent to him calling him. <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And a crowd sat around him. And they said to him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren seek thee without. <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother or my brethren? <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And looking around in a circuit at those that were sitting around him, he says, Behold my mother and my brethren: <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> for whosoever shall do the will of God, he is my brother, and sister, and mother.</p>

</body>
</html>