<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And rising up thence he comes into the coasts of Judaea, and the other side of the Jordan. And again crowds come together to him, and, as he was accustomed, again he taught them. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Pharisees coming to him asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? (tempting him). <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But he answering said to them, What did Moses command you? <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they said, Moses allowed to write a bill of divorce, and to put away. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Jesus answering said to them, In view of your hard-heartedness he wrote this commandment for you; <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but from the beginning of the creation God made them male and female. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For this cause a man shall leave his father and mother and shall be united to his wife, <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and the two shall be one flesh: so that they are no longer two but one flesh. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And again in the house the disciples asked him concerning this. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he says to them, Whosoever shall put away his wife and shall marry another, commits adultery against her. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And if a woman put away her husband and shall marry another, she commits adultery.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they brought little children to him that he might touch them. But the disciples rebuked those that brought them. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But Jesus seeing it, was indignant, and said to them, Suffer the little children to come to me; forbid them not; for of such is the kingdom of God. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Verily I say to you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, shall in no wise enter into it. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And having taken them in his arms, having laid his hands on them, he blessed them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And as he went forth into the way, a person ran up to him, and kneeling to him asked him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But Jesus said to him, Why callest thou me good? no one is good but one, that is God. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou knowest the commandments: Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honour thy father and mother. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he answering said to him, Teacher, all these things have I kept from my youth. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Jesus looking upon him loved him, and said to him, One thing lackest thou: go, sell whatever thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me, taking up the cross. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But he, sad at the word, went away grieved, for he had large possessions. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus looking around says to his disciples, How difficultly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God! <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the disciples were amazed at his words. And Jesus again answering says to them, Children, how difficult it is that those who trust in riches should enter into the kingdom of God! <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they were exceedingly astonished, saying to one another, And who can be saved? <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But Jesus looking on them says, With men it is impossible, but not with God; for all things are possible with God. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Peter began to say to him, Behold, we have left all things and have followed thee. <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jesus answering said, Verily I say to you, There is no one who has left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake and for the sake of the gospel, <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> that shall not receive a hundredfold now in this time: houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions, and in the coming age life eternal. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But many first shall be last, and the last first.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem, and Jesus was going on before them; and they were amazed, and were afraid as they followed. And taking the twelve again to him, he began to tell them what was going to happen to him: <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and the Son of man shall be delivered up to the chief priests and to the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him up to the nations: <a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him; and after three days he shall rise again. <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And there come to him James and John, the sons of Zebedee, saying to him, Teacher, we would that whatsoever we may ask thee, thou wouldst do it for us. <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And he said to them, What would ye that I should do for you? <a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they said to him, Give to us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and one on thy left hand, in thy glory. <a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Jesus said to them, Ye do not know what ye ask. Are ye able to drink the cup which I drink, or be baptised with the baptism that I am baptised with? <a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they said to him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink ye will drink and with the baptism that I am baptised with ye will be baptised, <a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> but to sit on my right hand or on my left is not mine to give, but for those for whom it is prepared. <a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And the ten having heard of it, began to be indignant about James and John. <a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> But Jesus having called them to him, says to them, Ye know that those who are esteemed to rule over the nations exercise lordship over them; and their great men exercise authority over them; <a id="c10_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> but it is not thus among you; but whosoever would be great among you, shall be your minister; <a id="c10_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and whosoever would be first of you shall be bondman of all. <a id="c10_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> For also the Son of man did not come to be ministered to, but to minister, and give his life a ransom for many.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And they come to Jericho, and as he was going out from Jericho, and his disciples and a large crowd, the son of Timaeus, Bartimaeus, the blind man, sat by the wayside begging. <a id="c10_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And having heard that it was Jesus the Nazaraean, he began to cry out and to say, O Son of David, Jesus, have mercy on me. <a id="c10_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And many rebuked him, that he might be silent; but he cried so much the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. <a id="c10_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And Jesus, standing still, desired him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying to him, Be of good courage, rise up, he calls thee. <a id="c10_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And, throwing away his garment, he started up and came to Jesus. <a id="c10_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And Jesus answering says to him, What wilt thou that I shall do to thee? And the blind man said to him, Rabboni, that I may see. <a id="c10_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And Jesus said to him, Go, thy faith has healed thee. And he saw immediately, and followed him in the way.</p>

</body>
</html>