<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Mark 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Mark 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he said to them, Verily I say unto you, There are some of those standing here that shall not taste death until they shall have seen the kingdom of God come in power. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And after six days Jesus takes with him Peter and James and John, and takes them up on a high mountain by themselves apart. And he was transfigured before them: <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and his garments became shining, exceeding white as snow, such as fuller on earth could not whiten them. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And there appeared to them Elias with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Peter answering says to Jesus, Rabbi, it is good that we should be here; and let us make three tabernacles, for thee one, and for Moses one, and for Elias one. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For he knew not what he should say, for they were filled with fear. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And there came a cloud overshadowing them, and there came a voice out of the cloud, This is my beloved Son: hear him. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And suddenly having looked around, they no longer saw any one, but Jesus alone with themselves. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And as they descended from the mountain, he charged them that they should relate to no one what they had seen, unless when the Son of man should be risen from among the dead. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they kept that saying, questioning among themselves, what rising from among the dead was. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they asked him saying, Why do the scribes say that Elias must first have come? <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he answering said to them, Elias indeed, having first come, restores all things; and how is it written of the Son of man that he must suffer much, and be set at nought: <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> but I say unto you that Elias also is come, and they have done to him whatever they would, as it is written of him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when he came to the disciples he saw a great crowd around them, and scribes disputing against them. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And immediately all the crowd seeing him were amazed, and running to him, saluted him. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he asked them, What do ye question with them about? <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And one out of the crowd answered him, Teacher, I brought to thee my son, who has a dumb spirit; <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and wheresoever it seizes him it tears him, and he foams and gnashes his teeth, and he is withering away. And I spoke to thy disciples, that they might cast him out, and they could not. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But he answering them says, O unbelieving generation! how long shall I be with you? how long shall I bear with you? bring him to me. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they brought him to him. And seeing him the spirit immediately tore him; and falling upon the earth he rolled foaming. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he asked his father, How long a time is it that it has been like this with him? And he said, From childhood; <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and often it has cast him both into fire and into waters that it might destroy him: but if thou couldst do anything, be moved with pity on us, and help us. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus said to him, The 'if thou couldst' is if thou couldst believe: all things are possible to him that believes. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And immediately the father of the young child crying out said with tears, I believe, help mine unbelief. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But Jesus, seeing that the crowd was running up together, rebuked the unclean spirit, saying to him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I command thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And having cried out and torn him much, he came out; and he became as if dead, so that the most said, He is dead. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But Jesus, having taken hold of him by the hand, lifted him up, and he arose. <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And when he was entered into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Wherefore could not we cast him out? <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said to them, This kind can go out by nothing but by prayer and fasting.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And going forth from thence they went through Galilee; and he would not that any one knew it; <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> for he taught his disciples and said to them, The Son of man is delivered into men's hands, and they shall kill him; and having been killed, after three days he shall rise again. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But they understood not the saying, and feared to ask him. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he came to Capernaum, and being in the house, he asked them, Of what were ye reasoning by the way? <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And they remained silent, for by the way they had been reasoning with one another who was greatest. <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And sitting down he called the twelve; and he says to them, If any one would be first, he shall be last of all, and minister of all. <a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And taking a little child he set it in their midst, and having taken it in his arms he said to them, <a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Whosoever shall receive one of such little children in my name, receives me; and whosoever shall receive me, does not receive me, but him who sent me. <a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And John answered him saying, Teacher, we saw some one casting out demons in thy name, who does not follow us, and we forbad him, because he does not follow us. <a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But Jesus said, Forbid him not; for there is no one who shall do a miracle in my name, and be able soon after to speak ill of me; <a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> for he who is not against us is for us.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye are Christ's, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward. <a id="c9_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And whosoever shall be a snare to one of the little ones who believe in me, it were better for him if a millstone were hung about his neck, and he cast into the sea. <a id="c9_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And if thy hand serve as a snare to thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life maimed, than having thy two hands to go away into hell, into the fire unquenchable; <a id="c9_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched. <a id="c9_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And if thy foot serve as a snare to thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life lame, than having thy two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire unquenchable; <a id="c9_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched. <a id="c9_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And if thine eye serve as a snare to thee, cast it out: it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into the hell of fire, <a id="c9_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> where their worm dies not, and the fire is not quenched. <a id="c9_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt. <a id="c9_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Salt is good, but if the salt is become saltless, wherewith will ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and be at peace with one another.</p>

</body>
</html>