<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the feast of unleavened bread, which is called the passover, drew nigh, <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might kill him; for they feared the people. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Satan entered into Judas, who was surnamed Iscariote, being of the number of the twelve. <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he went away and spoke with the chief priests and captains as to how he should deliver him up to them. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they were rejoiced, and agreed to give him money. <a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he came to an agreement to do it, and sought an opportunity to deliver him up to them away from the crowd.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the day of unleavened bread came, in which the passover was to be killed. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare the passover for us, that we may eat it. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But they said to him, Where wilt thou that we prepare it? <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he said to them, Behold, as ye enter into the city a man will meet you, carrying an earthen pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he goes in; <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and ye shall say to the master of the house, The Teacher says to thee, Where is the guest-chamber where I may eat the passover with my disciples? <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he will shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And having gone they found it as he had said to them; and they prepared the passover. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when the hour was come, he placed himself at table, and the twelve apostles with him. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he said to them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I say unto you, that I will not eat any more at all of it until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And having received a cup, when he had given thanks he said, Take this and divide it among yourselves. <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I say unto you, that I will not drink at all of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God come. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And having taken a loaf, when he had given thanks, he broke it, and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me. <a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In like manner also the cup, after having supped, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is poured out for you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Moreover, behold, the hand of him that delivers me up is with me on the table; <a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and the Son of man indeed goes as it is determined, but woe unto that man by whom he is delivered up. <a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they began to question together among themselves who then it could be of them who was about to do this. <a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And there was also a strife among them which of them should be held to be the greatest. <a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said to them, The kings of the nations rule over them, and they that exercise authority over them are called benefactors. <a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But ye shall not be thus; but let the greater among you be as the younger, and the leader as he that serves. <a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For which is greater, he that is at table or he that serves? Is not he that is at table? But I am in the midst of you as the one that serves. <a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But ye are they who have persevered with me in my temptations. <a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And I appoint unto you, as my Father has appointed unto me, a kingdom, <a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> that ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. <a id="c22_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded to have you, to sift you as wheat; <a id="c22_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> but I have besought for thee that thy faith fail not; and thou, when once thou hast been restored, confirm thy brethren. <a id="c22_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he said to him, Lord, with thee I am ready to go both to prison and to death. <a id="c22_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow to-day before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me. <a id="c22_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And he said to them, When I sent you without purse and scrip and sandals, did ye lack anything? And they said, Nothing. <a id="c22_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He said therefore to them, But now he that has a purse let him take it, in like manner also a scrip, and he that has none let him sell his garment and buy a sword; <a id="c22_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> for I say unto you, that this that is written must yet be accomplished in me, And he was reckoned with the lawless: for also the things concerning me have an end. <a id="c22_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And they said, Lord, behold here are two swords. And he said to them, It is enough.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And going forth he went according to his custom to the mount of Olives, and the disciples also followed him. <a id="c22_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And when he was at the place he said to them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation. <a id="c22_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's throw, and having knelt down he prayed, <a id="c22_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> saying, Father, if thou wilt remove this cup from me: --but then, not my will, but thine be done. <a id="c22_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And an angel appeared to him from heaven strengthening him. <a id="c22_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And being in conflict he prayed more intently. And his sweat became as great drops of blood, falling down upon the earth. <a id="c22_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And rising up from his prayer, coming to the disciples, he found them sleeping from grief. <a id="c22_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And he said to them, Why sleep ye? rise up and pray that ye enter not into temptation.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> As he was yet speaking, behold, a crowd, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went on before them, and drew near to Jesus to kiss him. <a id="c22_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And Jesus said to him, Judas, deliverest thou up the Son of man with a kiss? <a id="c22_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And they who were around him, seeing what was going to follow, said to him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword? <a id="c22_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And a certain one from among them smote the bondman of the high priest and took off his right ear. <a id="c22_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And Jesus answering said, Suffer thus far; and having touched his ear, he healed him. <a id="c22_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And Jesus said to the chief priests and captains of the temple and elders, who were come against him, Have ye come out as against a robber with swords and sticks? <a id="c22_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> When I was day by day with you in the temple ye did not stretch out your hands against me; but this is your hour and the power of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And having laid hold on him, they led him away, and they led him into the house of the high priest. And Peter followed afar off. <a id="c22_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And they having lit a fire in the midst of the court and sat down together, Peter sat among them. <a id="c22_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And a certain maid, having seen him sitting by the light, and having fixed her eyes upon him, said, And this man was with him. <a id="c22_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> But he denied him, saying, Woman, I do not know him. <a id="c22_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And after a short time another seeing him said, And thou art of them. But Peter said, Man, I am not. <a id="c22_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And after the lapse of about one hour another stoutly maintained it, saying, In truth this man also was with him, for also he is a Galilaean. <a id="c22_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he was yet speaking, the cock crew. <a id="c22_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And the Lord, turning round, looked at Peter; and Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he said to him, Before the cock crow thou shalt deny me thrice. <a id="c22_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> And Peter, going forth without, wept bitterly.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> And the men who held him mocked him, beating him; <a id="c22_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> and covering him up, asked him saying, Prophesy, who is it that struck thee? <a id="c22_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> And they said many other injurious things to him. <a id="c22_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And when it was day, the elderhood of the people, both the chief priests and scribes, were gathered together, and led him into their council, saying, <a id="c22_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> If thou art the Christ, tell us. And he said to them, If I tell you, ye will not at all believe; <a id="c22_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> and if I should ask you, ye would not answer me at all, nor let me go; <a id="c22_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> but henceforth shall the Son of man be sitting on the right hand of the power of God. <a id="c22_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> And they all said, Thou then art the Son of God? And he said to them, Ye say that I am. <a id="c22_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> And they said, What need have we any more of witness, for we have heard ourselves out of his mouth?</p>

</body>
</html>