<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when he had completed all his words in the hearing of the people, he entered into Capernaum. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And a certain centurion's bondman who was dear to him was ill and about to die; <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and having heard of Jesus, he sent to him elders of the Jews, begging him that he might come and save his bondman. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But they, being come to Jesus, besought him diligently, saying, He is worthy to whom thou shouldest grant this, <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for he loves our nation, and himself has built the synagogue for us. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jesus went with them. But already, when he was not far from the house, the centurion sent to him friends, saying to him, Lord, do not trouble thyself, for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore neither did I count myself worthy to come to thee. But say by a word and my servant shall be healed. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I also am a man placed under authority, having under myself soldiers, and I say to this one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he comes; and to my bondman, Do this, and he does it. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jesus hearing this wondered at him, and turning to the crowd following him said, I say to you, Not even in Israel have I found so great faith. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they who had been sent returning to the house found the bondman, who was ill, in good health.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass afterwards he went into a city called Nain, and many of his disciples and a great crowd went with him. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And as he drew near to the gate of the city, behold, a dead man was carried out, the only son of his mother, and she a widow, and a very considerable crowd of the city was with her. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the Lord, seeing her, was moved with compassion for her, and said to her, Weep not; <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and coming up he touched the bier, and the bearers stopped. And he said, Youth, I say to thee, Wake up. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the dead sat up and began to speak; and he gave him to his mother. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And fear seized on all, and they glorified God, saying, A great prophet has been raised up amongst us; and God has visited his people. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And this report went out in all Judaea concerning him, and in all the surrounding country. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the disciples of John brought him word concerning all these things:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and John, having called two of his disciples, sent to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that is coming, or are we to wait for another? <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the men having come to him said, John the baptist has sent us to thee, saying, Art thou he that is coming, or are we to wait for another? <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In that hour he healed many of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and to many blind he granted sight. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Jesus answering said to them, Go, bring back word to John of what ye have seen and heard: that blind see, lame walk, lepers are cleansed, deaf hear, dead are raised, poor are evangelized; <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and blessed is whosoever shall not be offended in me. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the messengers of John having departed, he began to speak to the crowds concerning John: What went ye out into the wilderness to behold? a reed shaken by the wind? <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But what went ye out to see? a man clothed in delicate garments? Behold, those who are in splendid clothing and live luxuriously are in the courts of kings. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But what went ye out to see? a prophet? Yea, I say to you, and what is more excellent than a prophet. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> This is he concerning whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, who shall prepare thy way before thee; <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> for I say unto you, Among them that are born of women a greater prophet is no one than John the baptist; but he who is a little one in the kingdom of God is greater than he. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> (And all the people who heard it, and the tax-gatherers, justified God, having been baptised with the baptism of John; <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> but the Pharisees and the lawyers rendered null as to themselves the counsel of God, not having been baptised by him.) <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> To whom therefore shall I liken the men of this generation, and to whom are they like? <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> They are like children sitting in the market-place, and calling one to another and saying, We have piped to you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned to you, and ye have not wept. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For John the baptist has come neither eating bread nor drinking wine, and ye say, He has a demon. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The Son of man has come eating and drinking, and ye say, Behold an eater and wine-drinker, a friend of tax-gatherers and sinners; <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and wisdom has been justified of all her children.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But one of the Pharisees begged him that he would eat with him. And entering into the house of the Pharisee he took his place at table; <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and behold, a woman in the city, who was a sinner, and knew that he was sitting at meat in the house of the Pharisee, having taken an alabaster box of myrrh, <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and standing at his feet behind him weeping, began to wash his feet with tears; and she wiped them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the myrrh. <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And the Pharisee who had invited him, seeing it, spoke with himself saying, This person if he were a prophet would have known who and what the woman is who touches him, for she is a sinner. <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Jesus answering said to him, Simon, I have somewhat to say to thee. And he says, Teacher, say it. <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> There were two debtors of a certain creditor: one owed five hundred denarii and the other fifty; <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> but as they had nothing to pay, he forgave both of them their debt: say, which of them therefore will love him most? <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Simon answering said, I suppose he to whom he forgave the most. And he said to him, Thou hast rightly judged. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And turning to the woman he said to Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thy house; thou gavest me not water on my feet, but she has washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with her hair. <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Thou gavest me not a kiss, but she from the time I came in has not ceased kissing my feet. <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> My head with oil thou didst not anoint, but she has anointed my feet with myrrh. <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> For which cause I say to thee, Her many sins are forgiven; for she loved much; but he to whom little is forgiven loves little. <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he said to her, Thy sins are forgiven. <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And they that were with them at table began to say within themselves, Who is this who forgives also sins? <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And he said to the woman, Thy faith has saved thee; go in peace.</p>

</body>
</html>