<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass, as he went into the house of one of the rulers, who was of the Pharisees, to eat bread on the sabbath, that they were watching him. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, there was a certain dropsical man before him. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Jesus answering spoke unto the doctors of the law and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath? <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But they were silent. And taking him he healed him and let him go. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And answering he said to them, Of which of you shall an ass or ox fall into a well, that he does not straightway pull him up on the sabbath day? <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they were not able to answer him to these things.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he spoke a parable to those that were invited, remarking how they chose out the first places, saying to them, <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When thou art invited by any one to a wedding, do not lay thyself down in the first place at table, lest perhaps a more honourable than thou be invited by him, <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and he who invited thee and him come and say to thee, Give place to this man, and then thou begin with shame to take the last place. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But when thou hast been invited, go and put thyself down in the last place, that when he who has invited thee comes, he may say to thee, Friend, go up higher: then shalt thou have honour before all that are lying at table with thee; <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for every one that exalts himself shall be abased, and he that abases himself shall be exalted. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he said also to him that had invited him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, nor thy kinsfolk, nor rich neighbours, lest it may be they also should invite thee in return, and a recompense be made thee. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But when thou makest a feast, call poor, crippled, lame, blind: <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and thou shalt be blessed; for they have not the means to recompense thee; for it shall be recompensed thee in the resurrection of the just.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And one of those that were lying at table with them, hearing these things, said to him, Blessed is he who shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he said to him, A certain man made a great supper and invited many. <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he sent his bondman at the hour of supper to say to those who were invited, Come, for already all things are ready. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And all began, without exception, to excuse themselves. The first said to him, I have bought land, and I must go out and see it; I pray thee hold me for excused. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them; I pray thee hold me for excused. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And another said, I have married a wife, and on this account I cannot come. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the bondman came up and brought back word of these things to his lord. Then the master of the house, in anger, said to his bondman, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring here the poor and crippled and lame and blind. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the bondman said, Sir, it is done as thou hast commanded, and there is still room. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the lord said to the bondman, Go out into the ways and fences and compel to come in, that my house may be filled; <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for I say to you, that not one of those men who were invited shall taste of my supper.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And great crowds went with him; and, turning round, he said to them, <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If any man come to me, and shall not hate his own father and mother, and wife, and children, and brothers, and sisters, yea, and his own life too, he cannot be my disciple; <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and whoever does not carry his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For which of you, desirous of building a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, if he have what is needed to complete it; <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> in order that, having laid the foundation of it, and not being able to finish it, all who see it do not begin to mock at him, <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish? <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Or what king, going on his way to engage in war with another king, does not, sitting down first, take counsel whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him coming against him with twenty thousand? <a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and if not, while he is yet far off, having sent an embassy, he asks for terms of peace. <a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Thus then every one of you who forsakes not all that is his own cannot be my disciple. <a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Salt then is good, but if the salt also has become savourless, wherewith shall it be seasoned? <a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> It is proper neither for land nor for dung; it is cast out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.</p>

</body>
</html>