<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass as he was in a certain place praying, when he ceased, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, even as John also taught his disciples. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said to them, When ye pray, say, Father, thy name be hallowed; thy kingdom come; <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> give us our needed bread for each day; <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and remit us our sins, for we also remit to every one indebted to us; and lead us not into temptation. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said to them, Who among you shall have a friend, and shall go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, let me have three loaves, <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> since a friend of mine on a journey is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him; <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and he within answering should say, Do not disturb me; the door is already shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise up to give it thee? <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> --I say to you, Although he will not get up and give them to him because he is his friend, because of his shamelessness, at any rate, he will rise and give him as many as he wants. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I say to you, Ask, and it shall be given to you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened to you. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For every one that asks receives; and he that seeks finds; and to him that knocks it will be opened. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But of whom of you that is a father shall a son ask bread, and the father shall give him a stone? or also a fish, and instead of a fish shall give him a serpent? <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> or if also he shall ask an egg, shall give him a scorpion? <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If therefore ye, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much rather shall the Father who is of heaven give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he was casting out a demon, and it was dumb; and it came to pass, the demon being gone out, the dumb man spoke. And the crowds wondered. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But some from among them said, By Beelzebub the prince of the demons casts he out demons. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And others tempting him sought from him a sign out of heaven. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation: and a house set against a house falls; <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and if also Satan is divided against himself, how shall his kingdom subsist? because ye say that I cast out demons by Beelzebub. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But if I by Beelzebub cast out demons, your sons--by whom do they cast them out? For this reason they shall be your judges. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But if by the finger of God I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God is come upon you. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> When the strong man armed keeps his own house, his goods are in peace; <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> but when the stronger than he coming upon him overcomes him, he takes away his panoply in which he trusted, and he will divide the spoil he has taken from him. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He that is not with me is against me, and he that gathers not with me scatters. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> When the unclean spirit has gone out of the man, he goes through dry places seeking rest; and not finding any he says, I will return to my house whence I came out. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And having come, he finds it swept and adorned. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then he goes and takes seven other spirits worse than himself, and entering in, they dwell there; and the last condition of that man becomes worse than the first.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it came to pass as he spake these things, a certain woman, lifting up her voice out of the crowd, said to him, Blessed is the womb that has borne thee, and the paps which thou hast sucked. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they who hear the word of God and keep it.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But as the crowds thronged together, he began to say, This generation is a wicked generation: it seeks a sign, and a sign shall not be given to it but the sign of Jonas. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For as Jonas was a sign to the Ninevites, thus shall also the Son of man be to this generation. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> A queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and shall condemn them: for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and behold, more than Solomon is here. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Men of Nineveh shall stand up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and behold, more than Jonas is here. <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But no one having lit a lamp sets it in secret, nor under the corn-measure, but on the lamp-stand, that they who enter in may see the light. <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The lamp of the body is thine eye: when thine eye is simple, thy whole body also is light; but when it is wicked, thy body also is dark. <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> See therefore that the light which is in thee be not darkness. <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> If therefore thy whole body is light, not having any part dark, it shall be all light as when the lamp lights thee with its brightness.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But as he spoke, a certain Pharisee asked him that he would dine with him; and entering in he placed himself at table. <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But the Pharisee seeing it wondered that he had not first washed before dinner. <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But the Lord said to him, Now do ye Pharisees cleanse the outside of the cup and of the dish, but your inward parts are full of plunder and wickedness. <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Fools, has not he who has made the outside made the inside also? <a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> But rather give alms of what ye have, and behold, all things are clean to you. <a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> But woe unto you, Pharisees, for ye pay tithes of mint and rue and every herb, and pass by the judgment and the love of God: these ye ought to have done, and not have left those aside. <a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Woe unto you, Pharisees, for ye love the first seat in the synagogues and salutations in the market-places. <a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Woe unto you, for ye are as the sepulchres which appear not, and the men walking over them do not know it. <a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And one of the doctors of the law answering says to him, Teacher, in saying these things thou insultest us also. <a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And he said, To you also woe, doctors of the law, for ye lay upon men burdens heavy to bear, and yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers. <a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Woe unto you, for ye build the sepulchres of the prophets, but your fathers killed them. <a id="c11_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Ye bear witness then, and consent to the works of your fathers; for they killed them, and ye build their sepulchres. <a id="c11_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> For this reason also the wisdom of God has said, I will send to them prophets and apostles, and of these shall they kill and drive out by persecution, <a id="c11_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> that the blood of all the prophets which has been poured out from the foundation of the world may be required of this generation, <a id="c11_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> from the blood of Abel to the blood of Zacharias, who perished between the altar and the house; yea, I say to you, it shall be required of this generation. <a id="c11_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Woe unto you, the doctors of the law, for ye have taken away the key of knowledge; yourselves have not entered in, and those who were entering in ye have hindered. <a id="c11_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And as he said these things to them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press him urgently, and to make him speak of many things; <a id="c11_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> watching him, and seeking to catch something out of his mouth, that they might accuse him.</p>

</body>
</html>