<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But on the morrow of the sabbath, very early indeed in the morning, they came to the tomb, bringing the aromatic spices which they had prepared. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when they had entered they found not the body of the Lord Jesus. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it came to pass as they were in perplexity about it, that behold, two men suddenly stood by them in shining raiment. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And as they were filled with fear and bowed their faces to the ground, they said to them, Why seek ye the living one among the dead? <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spoke to you, being yet in Galilee, <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> saying, The Son of man must be delivered up into the hands of sinners, and be crucified, and rise the third day. <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they remembered his words; <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and, returning from the sepulchre, related all these things to the eleven and to all the rest. <a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now it was Mary of Magdala, and Johanna, and Mary the mother of James, and the others with them, who told these things to the apostles. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And their words appeared in their eyes as an idle tale, and they disbelieved them. <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But Peter, rising up, ran to the sepulchre, and stooping down he sees the linen clothes lying there alone, and went away home, wondering at what had happened.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And behold, two of them were going on the same day to a village distant sixty stadia from Jerusalem, called Emmaus; <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and they conversed with one another about all these things which had taken place. <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass as they conversed and reasoned, that Jesus himself drawing nigh, went with them; <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> but their eyes were holden so as not to know him. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said to them, What discourses are these which pass between you as ye walk, and are downcast? <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And one of them, named Cleopas, answering said to him, Thou sojournest alone in Jerusalem, and dost not know what has taken place in it in these days? <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said to them, What things? And they said to him, The things concerning Jesus the Nazaraean, who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people; <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to the judgment of death and crucified him. <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But we had hoped that he was the one who is about to redeem Israel. But then, besides all these things, it is now, to-day, the third day since these things took place. <a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And withal, certain women from amongst us astonished us, having been very early at the sepulchre, <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and, not having found his body, came, saying that they also had seen a vision of angels, who say that he is living. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And some of those with us went to the sepulchre, and found it so, as the women also had said, but him they saw not. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said to them, O senseless and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken! <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And having begun from Moses and from all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. <a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And they drew near to the village where they were going, and he made as though he would go farther. <a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they constrained him, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening and the day is declining. And he entered in to stay with them. <a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And it came to pass as he was at table with them, having taken the bread, he blessed, and having broken it, gave it to them. <a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And their eyes were opened, and they recognised him. And he disappeared from them. <a id="c24_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they said to one another, Was not our heart burning in us as he spoke to us on the way, and as he opened the scriptures to us? <a id="c24_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And rising up the same hour, they returned to Jerusalem. And they found the eleven, and those with them, gathered together, <a id="c24_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> saying, The Lord is indeed risen and has appeared to Simon. <a id="c24_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they related what had happened on the way, and how he was made known to them in the breaking of bread.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as they were saying these things, he himself stood in their midst, and says to them, Peace be unto you. <a id="c24_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But they, being confounded and being frightened, supposed they beheld a spirit. <a id="c24_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said to them, Why are ye troubled? and why are thoughts rising in your hearts? <a id="c24_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Handle me and see, for a spirit has not flesh and bones as ye see me having. <a id="c24_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And having said this he shewed them his hands and his feet. <a id="c24_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> But while they yet did not believe for joy, and were wondering, he said to them, Have ye anything here to eat? <a id="c24_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And they gave him part of a broiled fish and of a honeycomb; <a id="c24_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> and he took it and ate before them. <a id="c24_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he said to them, These are the words which I spoke to you while I was yet with you, that all that is written concerning me in the law of Moses and prophets and psalms must be fulfilled. <a id="c24_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Then he opened their understanding to understand the scriptures, <a id="c24_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> and said to them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved the Christ to suffer, and to rise from among the dead the third day; <a id="c24_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all the nations beginning at Jerusalem. <a id="c24_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And ye are witnesses of these things. <a id="c24_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you; but do ye remain in the city till ye be clothed with power from on high.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And he led them out as far as Bethany, and having lifted up his hands, he blessed them. <a id="c24_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And it came to pass as he was blessing them, he was separated from them and was carried up into heaven. <a id="c24_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And they, having done him homage, returned to Jerusalem with great joy, <a id="c24_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and were continually in the temple praising and blessing God.</p>

</body>
</html>