<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he entered and passed through Jericho. <a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And behold, there was a man by name called Zacchaeus, and he was chief tax-gatherer, and he was rich. <a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he sought to see Jesus who he was: and he could not for the crowd, because he was little in stature. <a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And running on before, he got up into a sycamore that he might see him, for he was going to pass that way. <a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when he came up to the place, Jesus looked up and saw him, and said to him, Zacchaeus, make haste and come down, for to-day I must remain in thy house. <a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he made haste and came down, and received him with joy. <a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And all murmured when they saw it, saying, He has turned in to lodge with a sinful man. <a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I return him fourfold. <a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jesus said to him, To-day salvation is come to this house, inasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham; <a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for the Son of man has come to seek and to save that which is lost.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But as they were listening to these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was near to Jerusalem and they thought that the kingdom of God was about to be immediately manifested. <a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He said therefore, A certain high-born man went to a distant country to receive for himself a kingdom and return. <a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And having called his own ten bondmen, he gave to them ten minas, and said to them, Trade while I am coming. <a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But his citizens hated him, and sent an embassy after him, saying, We will not that this man should reign over us. <a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And it came to pass on his arrival back again, having received the kingdom, that he desired these bondmen to whom he gave the money to be called to him, in order that he might know what every one had gained by trading. <a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the first came up, saying, My Lord, thy mina has produced ten minas. <a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he said to him, Well done, thou good bondman; because thou hast been faithful in that which is least, be thou in authority over ten cities. <a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the second came, saying, My Lord, thy mina has made five minas. <a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said also to this one, And thou, be over five cities. <a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And another came, saying, My Lord, lo, there is thy mina, which I have kept laid up in a towel. <a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For I feared thee because thou art a harsh man: thou takest up what thou hast not laid down, and thou reapest what thou hast not sowed. <a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He says to him, Out of thy mouth will I judge thee, wicked bondman: thou knewest that I am a harsh man, taking up what I have not laid down and reaping what I have not sowed. <a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And why didst thou not give my money to the bank; and I should have received it, at my coming, with interest? <a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he said to those that stood by, Take from him the mina and give it to him who has the ten minas. <a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they said to him, Lord, he has ten minas. <a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For I say unto you, that to every one that has shall be given; but from him that has not, that even which he has shall be taken from him. <a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Moreover those mine enemies, who would not have me to reign over them, bring them here and slay them before me.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And having said these things, he went on before, going up to Jerusalem. <a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it came to pass as he drew near to Bethphage and Bethany at the mountain called the mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples, <a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> saying, Go into the village over against you, in which ye will find, on entering it, a colt tied up, on which no child of man ever sat at any time: loose it and lead it here. <a id="c19_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And if any one ask you, Why do ye loose it? thus shall ye say to him, Because the Lord has need of it. <a id="c19_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they that were sent, having gone their way, found as he had said to them. <a id="c19_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And as they were loosing the colt, its masters said to them, Why loose ye the colt? <a id="c19_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And they said, Because the Lord has need of it. <a id="c19_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they led it to Jesus; and having cast their own garments on the colt, they put Jesus on it. <a id="c19_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as he went, they strewed their clothes in the way. <a id="c19_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And as he drew near, already at the descent of the mount of Olives, all the multitude of the disciples began, rejoicing, to praise God with a loud voice for all the works of power which they had seen, <a id="c19_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> saying, Blessed the King that comes in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. <a id="c19_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And some of the Pharisees from the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke thy disciples. <a id="c19_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And he answering said to them, I say unto you, If these shall be silent, the stones will cry out.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And as he drew near, seeing the city, he wept over it, <a id="c19_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, even at least in this thy day, the things that are for thy peace: but now they are hid from thine eyes; <a id="c19_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> for days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall make a palisaded mound about thee, and shall close thee around, and keep thee in on every side, <a id="c19_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children in thee; and shall not leave in thee a stone upon a stone: because thou knewest not the season of thy visitation. <a id="c19_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And entering into the temple, he began to cast out those that sold and bought in it, <a id="c19_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> saying to them, It is written, My house is a house of prayer, but ye have made it a den of robbers. <a id="c19_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And he was teaching day by day in the temple: and the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him, <a id="c19_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> and did not find what they could do, for all the people hung on him to hear.</p>

</body>
</html>