<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass afterwards that he went through the country city by city, and village by village, preaching and announcing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God; and the twelve were with him, <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and certain women who had been healed of wicked spirits and infirmities, Mary who was called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out, <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and Joanna, wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, who ministered to him of their substance.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And a great crowd coming together, and those who were coming to him out of each city, he spoke by parable: <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sower went out to sow his seed; and as he sowed, some fell along the way, and it was trodden under foot, and the birds of the heaven devoured it up; <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and other fell upon the rock, and having sprung up, it was dried up because it had not moisture; <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and other fell in the midst of the thorns, and the thorns having sprung up with it choked it; <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and other fell into the good ground, and having sprung up bore fruit a hundredfold. As he said these things he cried, He that has ears to hear, let him hear. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And his disciples asked him saying, What may this parable be? <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he said, To you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to the rest in parables, in order that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the parable is this: The seed is the word of God. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But those by the wayside are those who hear; then comes the devil and takes away the word from their heart that they may not believe and be saved. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But those upon the rock, those who when they hear receive the word with joy; and these have no root, who believe for a time, and in time of trial fall away. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But that that fell where the thorns were, these are they who having heard go away and are choked under cares and riches and pleasures of life, and bring no fruit to perfection. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But that in the good ground, these are they who in an honest and good heart, having heard the word keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And no one having lighted a lamp covers it with a vessel or puts it under a couch, but sets it on a lamp-stand, that they who enter in may see the light. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For there is nothing hid which shall not become manifest, nor secret which shall not be known and come to light. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Take heed therefore how ye hear; for whosoever has, to him shall be given, and whosoever has not, even what he seems to have shall be taken from him. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And his mother and his brethren came to him, and could not get to him because of the crowd. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it was told him saying, Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, wishing to see thee. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But he answering said to them, My mother and my brethren are those who hear the word of God and do it.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And it came to pass on one of the days, that he entered into a ship, himself and his disciples; and he said to them, Let us pass over to the other side of the lake; and they set off from shore. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And as they sailed, he fell asleep; and a sudden squall of wind came down on the lake, and they were filled with water, and were in danger; <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and coming to him they woke him up, saying, Master, master, we perish. But he, rising up, rebuked the wind and the raging of the water; and they ceased, and there was a calm. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said to them, Where is your faith? And, being afraid, they were astonished, saying to one another, Who then is this, that he commands even the winds and the water, and they obey him? <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they arrived in the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And as he got out of the ship on the land, a certain man out of the city met him, who had demons a long time, and put on no clothes, and did not abide in a house, but in the tombs. <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But seeing Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus Son of the Most High God? I beseech thee torment me not. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For he had commanded the unclean spirit to go out from the man. For very often it had seized him; and he had been bound, kept with chains and fetters; and breaking the bonds he was driven by the demon into the deserts. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Jesus asked him saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion: for many demons had entered into him. <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they besought him that he would not command them to go away into the bottomless pit. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And there was there a herd of many swine feeding on the mountain, and they besought him that he would suffer them to enter into those; and he suffered them. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the demons, going out from the man, entered into the swine, and the herd rushed down the precipice into the lake, and were choked. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But they that fed them, seeing what had happened, fled, and told it to the city and to the country. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they went out to see what had happened, and came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had gone out, sitting, clothed and sensible, at the feet of Jesus. And they were afraid. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And they also who had seen it told them how the possessed man had been healed. <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And all the multitude of the surrounding country of the Gadarenes asked him to depart from them, for they were possessed with great fear; and he, entering into the ship, returned. <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But the man out of whom the demons had gone besought him that he might be with him. But he sent him away, saying, <a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Return to thine house and relate how great things God has done for thee. And he went away through the whole city, publishing how great things Jesus had done for him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And it came to pass when Jesus returned, the crowd received him gladly, for they were all expecting him. <a id="c8_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And behold, a man came, whose name was Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue, and falling at the feet of Jesus besought him to come to his house, <a id="c8_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> because he had an only daughter, about twelve years old, and she was dying. And as he went the crowds thronged him. <a id="c8_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And a woman who had a flux of blood since twelve years, who, having spent all her living on physicians, could not be cured by any one, <a id="c8_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> coming up behind, touched the hem of his garment, and immediately her flux of blood stopped. <a id="c8_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And Jesus said, Who has touched me? But all denying, Peter and those with him said, Master, the crowds close thee in and press upon thee, and sayest thou, Who has touched me? <a id="c8_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Jesus said, Some one has touched me, for I have known that power has gone out from me. <a id="c8_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And the woman, seeing that she was not hid, came trembling, and falling down before him declared before all the people for what cause she had touched him, and how she was immediately healed. <a id="c8_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he said to her, Be of good courage, daughter; thy faith has healed thee; go in peace. <a id="c8_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> While he was yet speaking, comes some one from the ruler of the synagogue, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead; do not trouble the teacher. <a id="c8_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But Jesus, hearing it, answered him saying, Fear not: only believe, and she shall be made well. <a id="c8_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And when he came to the house he suffered no one to go in but Peter and John and James and the father of the child and the mother. <a id="c8_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And all were weeping and lamenting her. But he said, Do not weep, for she has not died, but sleeps. <a id="c8_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And they derided him, knowing that she had died. <a id="c8_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> But he, having turned them all out and taking hold of her hand, cried saying, Child, arise. <a id="c8_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And her spirit returned, and immediately she rose up; and he commanded something to eat to be given to her. <a id="c8_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And her parents were amazed; but he enjoined them to tell no one what had happened.</p>

</body>
</html>