<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he looked up and saw the rich casting their gifts into the treasury; <a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> but he saw also a certain poor widow casting therein two mites. <a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said, Verily I say unto you, that this poor widow has cast in more than all; <a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> for all these out of their abundance have cast into the gifts of God; but she out of her need has cast in all the living which she had.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And as some spoke of the temple, that it was adorned with goodly stones and consecrated offerings, he said, <a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> As to these things which ye are beholding, days are coming in which there shall not be left stone upon stone which shall not be thrown down. <a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they asked him saying, Teacher, when then shall these things be; and what is the sign when these things are going to take place? <a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said, See that ye be not led astray, for many shall come in my name, saying, I am he, and the time is drawn nigh: go ye not therefore after them. <a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when ye shall hear of wars and tumults, be not terrified, for these things must first take place, but the end is not immediately. <a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then he said to them, Nation shall rise up against nation, and kingdom against kingdom; <a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> there shall be both great earthquakes in different places, and famines and pestilences; and there shall be fearful sights and great signs from heaven. <a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But before all these things they shall lay their hands upon you and persecute you, delivering you up to synagogues and prisons, bringing you before kings and governors on account of my name; <a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> but it shall turn out to you for a testimony. <a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Settle therefore in your hearts not to meditate beforehand your defence, <a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for I will give you a mouth and wisdom which all your opposers shall not be able to reply to or resist. <a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But ye will be delivered up even by parents and brethren and relations and friends, and they shall put to death some from among you, <a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and ye will be hated of all for my name's sake. <a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And a hair of your head shall in no wise perish. <a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> By your patient endurance gain your souls.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But when ye see Jerusalem encompassed with armies, then know that its desolation is drawn nigh. <a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then let those who are in Judaea flee to the mountains, and those who are in the midst of it depart out, and those who are in the country not enter into it; <a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for these are days of avenging, that all the things that are written may be accomplished. <a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But woe to them that are with child and to them who give suck in those days, for there shall be great distress upon the land and wrath upon this people. <a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and be led captive into all the nations; and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the nations until the times of the nations be fulfilled. <a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And there shall be signs in sun and moon and stars, and upon the earth distress of nations in perplexity at the roar of the sea and rolling waves, <a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> men ready to die through fear and expectation of what is coming on the habitable earth, for the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. <a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. <a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But when these things begin to come to pass, look up and lift up your heads, because your redemption draws nigh.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he spoke a parable to them: Behold the fig-tree and all the trees; <a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> when they already sprout, ye know of your own selves, on looking at them, that already the summer is near. <a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So also ye, when ye see these things take place, know that the kingdom of God is near. <a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall in no wise pass away until all come to pass. <a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The heaven and the earth shall pass away, but my words shall in no wise pass away. <a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But take heed to yourselves lest possibly your hearts be laden with surfeiting and drinking and cares of life, and that day come upon you suddenly unawares; <a id="c21_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> for as a snare shall it come upon all them that dwell upon the face of the whole earth. <a id="c21_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Watch therefore, praying at every season, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things which are about to come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man. <a id="c21_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And by day he was teaching in the temple, and by night, going out, he remained abroad on the mountain called the mount of Olives; <a id="c21_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple to hear him.</p>

</body>
</html>