<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he said to his disciples, It cannot be but that offences come, but woe to him by whom they come! <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> It would be more profitable for him if a millstone were hanged about his neck and he cast into the sea, than that he should be a snare to one of these little ones. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Take heed to yourselves: if thy brother should sin, rebuke him; and if he should repent, forgive him. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And if he should sin against thee seven times in the day, and seven times should return to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the apostles said to the Lord, Give more faith to us. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But the Lord said, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye had said to this sycamine tree, Be thou rooted up, and be thou planted in the sea, and it would have obeyed you. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But which of you is there who, having a bondman ploughing or shepherding, when he comes in out of the field, will say, Come and lie down immediately to table? <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But will he not say to him, Prepare what I shall sup on, and gird thyself and serve me that I may eat and drink; and after that thou shalt eat and drink? <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Is he thankful to the bondman because he has done what was ordered? I judge not. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thus ye also, when ye shall have done all things that have been ordered you, say, We are unprofitable bondmen; we have done what it was our duty to do.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it came to pass as he was going up to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And as he entered into a certain village ten leprous men met him, who stood afar off. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they lifted up their voice saying, Jesus, Master, have compassion on us. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And seeing them he said to them, Go, shew yourselves to the priests. And it came to pass as they were going they were cleansed. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And one of them, seeing that he was cured, turned back, glorifying God with a loud voice, <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and fell on his face at his feet giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan. <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Jesus answering said, Were not the ten cleansed? but the nine, where are they? <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There have not been found to return and give glory to God save this stranger. <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he said to him, Rise up and go thy way: thy faith has made thee well.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And having been asked by the Pharisees, When is the kingdom of God coming? he answered them and said, The kingdom of God does not come with observation; <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> nor shall they say, Lo here, or, Lo there; for behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you. <a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he said to the disciples, Days are coming, when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and shall not see it. <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they will say to you, Lo here, or Lo there; go not, nor follow them. <a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For as the lightning shines which lightens from one end under heaven to the other end under heaven, thus shall the Son of man be in his day. <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But first he must suffer many things and be rejected of this generation. <a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And as it took place in the days of Noe, thus also shall it be in the days of the Son of man: <a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> they ate, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, and the flood came and destroyed all of them; <a id="c17_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and in like manner as took place in the days of Lot: they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded; <a id="c17_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but on the day that Lot went out from Sodom, it rained fire and sulphur from heaven, and destroyed all of them: <a id="c17_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> after this manner shall it be in the day that the Son of man is revealed. <a id="c17_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> In that day, he who shall be on the housetop, and his stuff in the house, let him not go down to take it away; and he that is in the field, let him likewise not return back. <a id="c17_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Remember the wife of Lot. <a id="c17_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it, and whosoever shall lose it shall preserve it. <a id="c17_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I say to you, In that night there shall be two men upon one bed; one shall be seized and the other shall be let go. <a id="c17_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Two women shall be grinding together; the one shall be seized and the other shall be let go. <a id="c17_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Two men shall be in the field; the one shall be seized and the other let go. <a id="c17_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And answering they say to him, Where, Lord? And he said to them, Where the body is, there the eagles will be gathered together.</p>

</body>
</html>