<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now in the fifteenth year of the government of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod tetrarch of Galilee, and Philip his brother tetrarch of Ituraea and the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in the high priesthood of Annas and Caiaphas, the word of God came upon John, the son of Zacharias, in the wilderness. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he came into all the district round the Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins, <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> as it is written in the book of the words of Esaias the prophet: Voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight his paths. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Every gorge shall be filled up, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low, and the crooked places shall become a straight path, and the rough places smooth ways, <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and all flesh shall see the salvation of God. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He said therefore to the crowds which went out to be baptised by him, Offspring of vipers, who has forewarned you to flee from the coming wrath? <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Produce therefore fruits worthy of repentance; and begin not to say in yourselves, We have Abraham for our father, for I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children to Abraham. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And already also the axe is applied to the root of the trees; every tree therefore not producing good fruit is cut down and cast into the fire. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the crowds asked him saying, What should we do then? <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he answering says to them, He that has two body-coats, let him give to him that has none; and he that has food, let him do likewise. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And tax-gatherers came also to be baptised, and they said to him, Teacher, what should we do? <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he said to them, Take no more money than what is appointed to you. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And persons engaged in military service also asked him saying, And we, what should we do? And he said to them, Oppress no one, nor accuse falsely, and be satisfied with your pay.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But as the people were in expectation, and all were reasoning in their hearts concerning John whether he might be the Christ, <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> John answered all, saying, I indeed baptise you with water, but the mightier than I is coming, the thong of whose sandals I am not fit to unloose; he shall baptise you with the Holy Spirit and fire; <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> whose winnowing-fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his threshing-floor, and will gather the wheat into his garner, but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Exhorting then many other things also he announced his glad tidings to the people. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him as to Herodias, the wife of his brother, and as to all the wicked things which Herod had done, <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> added this also to all the rest, that he shut up John in prison.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And it came to pass, all the people having been baptised, and Jesus having been baptised and praying, that the heaven was opened, <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and the Holy Spirit descended in a bodily form as a dove upon him; and a voice came out of heaven, Thou art my beloved Son, in thee I have found my delight. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus himself was beginning to be about thirty years old; being as was supposed son of Joseph; of Eli, <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> of Matthat, of Levi, of Melchi, of Janna, of Joseph, <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> of Mattathias, of Amos, of Naoum, of Esli, of Naggai, <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> of Maath, of Mattathias, of Semei, of Joseph, of Juda, <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> of Joannes, of Resa, of Zorobabel, of Salathiel, of Neri, <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> of Melchi, of Addi, of Cosam, of Elmodam, of Er, <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> of Joses, of Eliezer, of Joreim, of Matthat, of Levi, <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> of Simeon, of Juda, of Joseph, of Jonan, of Eliakim, <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> of Meleas, of Menan, of Mattatha, of Nathan, of David, <a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> of Jesse, of Obed, of Booz, of Salmon, of Naasson, <a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> of Aminadab, of Aram, of Esrom, of Phares, of Juda, <a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> of Jacob, of Isaac, of Abraham, of Terah, of Nachor, <a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> of Seruch, of Ragau, of Phalek, of Eber, of Sala, <a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> of Cainan, of Arphaxad, of Sem, of Noe, of Lamech, <a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> of Methusala, of Enoch, of Jared, of Maleleel, of Cainan, <a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> of Enos, of Seth, of Adam, of God.</p>

</body>
</html>