<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And having called together the twelve, he gave them power and authority over all demons, and to heal diseases, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and sent them to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal the sick. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he said to them, Take nothing for the way, neither staff, nor scrip, nor bread, nor money; nor to have two body-coats apiece. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And into whatsoever house ye enter, there abide and thence go forth. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And as many as may not receive you, going forth from that city, shake off even the dust from your feet for a witness against them. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And going forth they passed through the villages, announcing the glad tidings and healing everywhere. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Herod the tetrarch heard of all the things which were done by him, and was in perplexity, because it was said by some that John was risen from among the dead, <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and by some that Elias had appeared, and by others that one of the old prophets had risen again. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Herod said, John I have beheaded, but who is this of whom I hear such things? and he sought to see him.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the apostles having returned related to him whatever they had done. And he took them and withdrew apart into a desert place of a city called Bethsaida. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the crowds knowing it followed him; and he received them and spake to them of the kingdom of God, and cured those that had need of healing. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But the day began to decline, and the twelve came and said to him, Send away the crowd that they may go into the villages around, and into the fields, and lodge and find victuals, for here we are in a desert place. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he said to them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have not more than five loaves and two fishes, unless we should go and buy food for all this people; <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for they were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Make them sit down in companies by fifties. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they did so, and made them all sit down. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And taking the five loaves and the two fishes, looking up to heaven he blessed them, and broke and gave to the disciples to set before the crowd. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they all ate and were filled; and there was taken up of what had remained over and above to them in fragments twelve hand-baskets.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And it came to pass as he was praying alone, his disciples were with him, and he asked them saying, Who do the crowds say that I am? <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But they answering said, John the baptist; but others, Elias; and others, that one of the old prophets has risen again. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he said to them, But ye, who do ye say that I am? And Peter answering said, The Christ of God. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But, earnestly charging them, he enjoined them to say this to no man, <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and the third day be raised up. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said to them all, If any one will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me; <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for whosoever shall desire to save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake, he shall save it. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For what shall a man profit if he shall have gained the whole world, and have destroyed, or come under the penalty of the loss of himself? <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For whosoever shall have been ashamed of me and of my words, of him will the Son of man be ashamed when he shall come in his glory, and in that of the Father, and of the holy angels. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But I say unto you of a truth, There are some of those standing here who shall not taste death until they shall have seen the kingdom of God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And it came to pass after these words, about eight days, that taking Peter and John and James he went up into a mountain to pray. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And as he prayed the fashion of his countenance became different and his raiment white and effulgent. <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And lo, two men talked with him, who were Moses and Elias, <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> who, appearing in glory, spoke of his departure which he was about to accomplish in Jerusalem. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But Peter and those with him were oppressed with sleep: but having fully awoke up they saw his glory, and the two men who stood with him. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And it came to pass as they departed from him, Peter said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here; and let us make three tabernacles, one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: not knowing what he said. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But as he was saying these things, there came a cloud and overshadowed them, and they feared as they entered into the cloud: <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and there was a voice out of the cloud saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him. <a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as the voice was heard Jesus was found alone: and they kept silence, and told no one in those days any of the things they had seen.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And it came to pass on the following day, when they came down from the mountain, a great crowd met him. <a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And lo, a man from the crowd cried out saying, Teacher, I beseech thee look upon my son, for he is mine only child: <a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and behold, a spirit takes him, and suddenly he cries out, and it tears him with foaming, and with difficulty departs from him after crushing him. <a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And I besought thy disciples that they might cast him out, and they could not. <a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And Jesus answering said, O unbelieving and perverted generation, how long shall I be with you and suffer you? Bring hither thy son. <a id="c9_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> But as he was yet coming, the demon tore him and dragged him all together. And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child and gave him back to his father.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And all were astonished at the glorious greatness of God. And as all wondered at all the things which Jesus did, he said to his disciples, <a id="c9_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Do ye let these words sink into your ears. For the Son of man is about to be delivered into men's hands. <a id="c9_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> But they understood not this saying, and it was hid from them that they should not perceive it. And they feared to ask him concerning this saying. <a id="c9_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And a reasoning came in amongst them, who should be the greatest of them. <a id="c9_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And Jesus, seeing the reasoning of their heart, having taken a little child set it by him, <a id="c9_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> and said to them, Whosoever shall receive this little child in my name receives me, and whosoever shall receive me receives him that sent me. For he who is the least among you all, he is great. <a id="c9_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And John answering said, Master, we saw some one casting out demons in thy name, and we forbad him, because he follows not with us. <a id="c9_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And Jesus said to him, Forbid him not, for he that is not against you is for you.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And it came to pass when the days of his receiving up were fulfilled, that he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. <a id="c9_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And he sent messengers before his face. And having gone they entered into a village of the Samaritans that they might make ready for him. <a id="c9_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And they did not receive him, because his face was turned as going to Jerusalem. <a id="c9_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And his disciples James and John seeing it said, Lord, wilt thou that we speak that fire come down from heaven and consume them, as also Elias did? <a id="c9_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> But turning he rebuked them and said, Ye know not of what spirit ye are. <a id="c9_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And they went to another village.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And it came to pass as they went in the way, one said to him, I will follow thee wheresoever thou goest, Lord. <a id="c9_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> And Jesus said to him, The foxes have holes and the birds of the heaven roosting-places, but the Son of man has not where he may lay his head. <a id="c9_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And he said to another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, allow me to go first and bury my father. <a id="c9_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> But Jesus said to him, Suffer the dead to bury their own dead, but do thou go and announce the kingdom of God. <a id="c9_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And another also said, I will follow thee, Lord, but first allow me to bid adieu to those at my house. <a id="c9_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> But Jesus said to him, No one having laid his hand on the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God.</p>

</body>
</html>