<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he spoke also a parable to them to the purport that they should always pray and not faint, <a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> saying, There was a judge in a city, not fearing God and not respecting man: <a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and there was a widow in that city, and she came to him, saying, Avenge me of mine adverse party. <a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he would not for a time; but afterwards he said within himself, If even I fear not God and respect not man, <a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> at any rate because this widow annoys me I will avenge her, that she may not by perpetually coming completely harass me. <a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge says. <a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And shall not God at all avenge his elect, who cry to him day and night, and he bears long as to them? <a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I say unto you that he will avenge them speedily. But when the Son of man comes, shall he indeed find faith on the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he spoke also to some, who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and made nothing of all the rest of men, this parable: <a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a tax-gatherer. <a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Pharisee, standing, prayed thus to himself: God, I thank thee that I am not as the rest of men, rapacious, unjust, adulterers, or even as this tax-gatherer. <a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I fast twice in the week, I tithe everything I gain. <a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the tax-gatherer, standing afar off, would not lift up even his eyes to heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, O God, have compassion on me, the sinner. <a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I say unto you, This man went down to his house justified rather than that other. For every one who exalts himself shall be humbled, and he that humbles himself shall be exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they brought to him also infants that he might touch them, but the disciples when they saw it rebuked them. <a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Jesus calling them to him said, Suffer little children to come to me, and do not forbid them, for of such is the kingdom of God. <a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Verily I say to you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And a certain ruler asked him saying, Good teacher, having done what, shall I inherit eternal life? <a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But Jesus said to him, Why callest thou me good? There is none good but one, God. <a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Thou knowest the commandments: Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honour thy father and thy mother. <a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he said, All these things have I kept from my youth. <a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when Jesus had heard this, he said to him, One thing is lacking to thee yet: Sell all that thou hast and distribute to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in the heavens, and come, follow me. <a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But when he heard this he became very sorrowful, for he was very rich. <a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But when Jesus saw that he became very sorrowful, he said, How difficultly shall those who have riches enter into the kingdom of God; <a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> for it is easier for a camel to enter through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. <a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And those who heard it said, And who can be saved? <a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But he said, The things that are impossible with men are possible with God. <a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Peter said, Behold, we have left all things and have followed thee. <a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he said to them, Verily I say to you, There is no one who has left home, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God's sake, <a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> who shall not receive manifold more at this time, and in the coming age life eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he took the twelve to him and said to them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written of the Son of man by the prophets shall be accomplished; <a id="c18_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> for he shall be delivered up to the nations, and shall be mocked, and insulted, and spit upon. <a id="c18_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when they have scourged him they will kill him; and on the third day he will rise again. <a id="c18_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And they understood nothing of these things. And this word was hidden from them, and they did not know what was said.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And it came to pass when he came into the neighbourhood of Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the wayside begging. <a id="c18_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And when he heard the crowd passing, he inquired what this might be. <a id="c18_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they told him that Jesus the Nazaraean was passing by. <a id="c18_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he called out saying, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. <a id="c18_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And those who were going before rebuked him that he might be silent; but he cried out so much the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. <a id="c18_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be led to him. And when he drew nigh he asked him saying, <a id="c18_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> What wilt thou that I shall do to thee? And he said, Lord, that I may see. <a id="c18_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Jesus said to him, See: thy faith has healed thee. <a id="c18_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And immediately he saw, and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people when they saw it gave praise to God.</p>

</body>
</html>