<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And all the tax-gatherers and the sinners were coming near to him to hear him; <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receives sinners and eats with them. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he spoke to them this parable, saying, <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> What man of you having a hundred sheep, and having lost one of them, does not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness and go after that which is lost, until he find it? <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and having found it, he lays it upon his own shoulders, rejoicing; <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and being come to the house, calls together the friends and the neighbours, saying to them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my lost sheep. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I say unto you, that thus there shall be joy in heaven for one repenting sinner, more than for ninety and nine righteous who have no need of repentance. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Or, what woman having ten drachmas, if she lose one drachma, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek carefully till she find it? <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and having found it she calls together the friends and neighbours, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the drachma which I had lost. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Thus, I say unto you, there is joy before the angels of God for one repenting sinner.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said, A certain man had two sons; <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and the younger of them said to his father, Father, give to me the share of the property that falls to me. And he divided to them what he was possessed of. <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And after not many days the younger son gathering all together went away into a country a long way off, and there dissipated his property, living in debauchery. <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But when he had spent all there arose a violent famine throughout that country, and he began to be in want. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he went and joined himself to one of the citizens of that country, and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he longed to fill his belly with the husks which the swine were eating; and no one gave to him. <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And coming to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have abundance of bread, and I perish here by famine. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will rise up and go to my father, and I will say to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee; <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I am no longer worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he rose up and went to his own father. But while he was yet a long way off, his father saw him, and was moved with compassion, and ran, and fell upon his neck, and covered him with kisses. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against heaven and before thee; I am no longer worthy to be called thy son. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But the father said to his bondmen, Bring out the best robe and clothe him in it, and put a ring on his hand and sandals on his feet; <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and bring the fatted calf and kill it, and let us eat and make merry: <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for this my son was dead and has come to life, was lost and has been found. And they began to make merry. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And his elder son was in the field; and as, coming up, he drew nigh to the house, he heard music and dancing. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And having called one of the servants, he inquired what these things might be. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he said to him, Thy brother is come, and thy father has killed the fatted calf because he has received him safe and well. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But he became angry and would not go in. And his father went out and besought him. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But he answering said to his father, Behold, so many years I serve thee, and never have I transgressed a commandment of thine; and to me hast thou never given a kid that I might make merry with my friends: <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> but when this thy son, who has devoured thy substance with harlots, is come, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf. <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But he said to him, Child, thou art ever with me, and all that is mine is thine. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But it was right to make merry and rejoice, because this thy brother was dead and has come to life again, and was lost and has been found.</p>

</body>
</html>