<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the whole multitude of them, rising up, led him to Pilate. <a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they began to accuse him, saying, We have found this man perverting our nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ, a king. <a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Pilate demanded of him saying, Art thou the king of the Jews? And he answering him said, Thou sayest. <a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, I find no guilt in this man. <a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they insisted, saying, He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judaea, beginning from Galilee even on to here. <a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But Pilate, having heard Galilee named, demanded if the man were a Galilaean; <a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and having learned that he was of Herod's jurisdiction, remitted him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem in those days. <a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when Herod saw Jesus he greatly rejoiced, for he had been a long while desirous of seeing him, because of hearing many things concerning him, and he hoped to see some sign done by him; <a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and he questioned him in many words, but he answered him nothing. <a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the chief priests and the scribes stood and accused him violently. <a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Herod with his troops having set him at nought and mocked him, having put a splendid robe upon him, sent him back to Pilate. <a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Pilate and Herod became friends with one another the same day, for they had been at enmity before between themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Pilate, having called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, <a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> said to them, Ye have brought to me this man as turning away the people to rebellion, and behold, I, having examined him before you, have found nothing criminal in this man as to the things of which ye accuse him; <a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> nor Herod either, for I remitted you to him, and behold, nothing worthy of death is done by him. <a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Having chastised him therefore, I will release him. <a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> (Now he was obliged to release one for them at the feast.) <a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But they cried out in a mass saying, Away with this man and release Barabbas to us; <a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> who was one who, for a certain tumult which had taken place in the city, and for murder, had been cast into prison. <a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Pilate therefore, desirous to release Jesus, again addressed them. <a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But they cried out in reply saying, Crucify, crucify him. <a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he said the third time to them, What evil then has this man done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will chastise him therefore and release him. <a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But they were urgent with loud voices, begging that he might be crucified. And their voices and those of the chief priests prevailed. <a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Pilate adjudged that what they begged should take place. <a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he released him who, for tumult and murder, had been cast into prison, whom they begged for, and Jesus he delivered up to their will.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And as they led him away, they laid hold on a certain Simon, a Cyrenian, coming from the field, and put the cross upon him to bear it behind Jesus. <a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And a great multitude of the people, and of women who wailed and lamented him, followed him. <a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Jesus turning round to them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep over me, but weep over yourselves and over your children; <a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> for behold, days are coming in which they will say, Blessed are the barren, and wombs that have not borne, and breasts that have not given suck. <a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall upon us; and to the hills, Cover us: <a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> for if these things are done in the green tree, what shall take place in the dry?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now two others also, malefactors, were led with him to be put to death. <a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And when they came to the place which is called Skull, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, the other on the left. <a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jesus said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And, parting out his garments, they cast lots. <a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the people stood beholding, and the rulers also with them sneered, saying, He has saved others; let him save himself if this is the Christ, the chosen one of God. <a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And the soldiers also made game of him, coming up offering him vinegar, <a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. <a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And there was also an inscription written over him in Greek, and Roman, and Hebrew letters: This is the King of the Jews. <a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Now one of the malefactors who had been hanged spoke insultingly to him, saying, Art not thou the Christ? save thyself and us. <a id="c23_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost thou too not fear God, thou that art under the same judgment? <a id="c23_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> and we indeed justly, for we receive the just recompense of what we have done; but this man has done nothing amiss. <a id="c23_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And he said to Jesus, Remember me, Lord, when thou comest in thy kingdom. <a id="c23_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Jesus said to him, Verily I say to thee, To-day shalt thou be with me in paradise.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And it was about the sixth hour, and there came darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour. <a id="c23_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple rent in the midst. <a id="c23_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Jesus, having cried with a loud voice, said, Father, into thy hands I commit my spirit. And having said this, he expired. <a id="c23_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Now the centurion, seeing what took place, glorified God, saying, In very deed this man was just. <a id="c23_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And all the crowds who had come together to that sight, having seen the things that took place, returned, beating their breasts. <a id="c23_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And all those who knew him stood afar off, the women also who had followed him from Galilee, beholding these things.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And behold, a man named Joseph, who was a councillor, a good man and a just <a id="c23_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> (this man had not assented to their counsel and deed), of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews, who also waited, himself also, for the kingdom of God <a id="c23_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> --he having gone to Pilate begged the body of Jesus; <a id="c23_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and having taken it down, wrapped it in fine linen and placed him in a tomb hewn in the rock, where no one had ever been laid. <a id="c23_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And it was preparation day, and the sabbath twilight was coming on. <a id="c23_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And women, who had come along with him out of Galilee, having followed, saw the sepulchre and how his body was placed. <a id="c23_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And having returned they prepared aromatic spices and ointments, and remained quiet on the sabbath, according to the commandment.</p>

</body>
</html>