<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And it came to pass on one of the days, as he was teaching the people in the temple, and announcing the glad tidings, the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came up, <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and spoke to him saying, Tell us by what authority thou doest these things, or who is it who has given thee this authority? <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he answering said to them, I also will ask you one thing, and tell me: <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The baptism of John, was it of heaven or of men? <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they reasoned among themselves, saying, If we should say, Of heaven, he will say, Why have ye not believed him? <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but if we should say, Of men, the whole people will stone us, for they are persuaded that John was a prophet. <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they answered, they did not know whence. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Jesus said to them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he began to speak to the people this parable: A man planted a vineyard and let it out to husbandmen, and left the country for a long time. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And in the season he sent to the husbandmen a bondman, that they might give to him of the fruit of the vineyard; but the husbandmen, having beaten him, sent him away empty. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And again he sent another bondman; but they, having beaten him also, and cast insult upon him, sent him away empty. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And again he sent a third; and they, having wounded him also, cast him out. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the lord of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son: perhaps when they see him they will respect him. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, that the inheritance may become ours. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And having cast him forth out of the vineyard, they killed him. What therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do to them? <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He will come and destroy those husbandmen, and will give the vineyard to others. And when they heard it they said, May it never be! <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But he looking at them said, What then is this that is written, The stone which they that builded rejected, this has become the corner-stone? <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Every one falling on this stone shall be broken, but on whomsoever it shall fall, it shall grind him to powder. <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the chief priests and the scribes sought the same hour to lay hands on him, and they feared the people; for they knew that he had spoken this parable of them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And having watched him, they sent out suborned persons, pretending to be just men, that they might take hold of him in his language, so that they might deliver him up to the power and authority of the governor. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they asked him saying, Teacher, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, and acceptest no man's person, but teachest with truth the way of God: <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Is it lawful for us to give tribute to Caesar, or not? <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But perceiving their deceit he said to them, Why do ye tempt me? <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shew me a denarius. Whose image and superscription has it? And answering they said, Caesar's. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he said to them, Pay therefore what is Caesar's to Caesar, and what is God's to God. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they were not able to take hold of him in his expressions before the people, and, wondering at his answer, they were silent.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And some of the Sadducees, who deny that there is any resurrection, coming up to him, <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> demanded of him saying, Teacher, Moses wrote to us, If any one's brother, who has a wife, die, and he die childless, his brother shall take the wife and raise up seed to his brother. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> There were then seven brethren: and the first, having taken a wife, died childless; <a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and the second took the woman, and he died childless; <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and the third took her: and in like manner also the seven left no children and died; <a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and last of all the woman also died. <a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> In the resurrection therefore of which of them does she become wife, for the seven had her as wife? <a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Jesus said to them, The sons of this world marry and are given in marriage, <a id="c20_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> but they who are counted worthy to have part in that world, and the resurrection from among the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage; <a id="c20_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> for neither can they die any more, for they are equal to angels, and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection. <a id="c20_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But that the dead rise, even Moses shewed in the section of the bush, when he called the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob; <a id="c20_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> but he is not God of the dead but of the living; for all live for him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And some of the scribes answering said, Teacher, thou hast well spoken. <a id="c20_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For they did not dare any more to ask him anything. <a id="c20_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And he said to them, How do they say that the Christ is David's son, <a id="c20_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and David himself says in the book of Psalms, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand <a id="c20_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> until I put thine enemies as footstool of thy feet? <a id="c20_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> David therefore calls him Lord, and how is he his son? <a id="c20_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And, as all the people were listening, he said to his disciples, <a id="c20_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Beware of the scribes, who like to walk about in long robes, and who love salutations in the market-places, and first seats in the synagogues, and first places at suppers; <a id="c20_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> who devour the houses of widows, and as a pretext make long prayers. These shall receive a severer judgment.</p>

</body>
</html>