<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now at the same time there were present some who told him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate mingled with that of their sacrifices. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he answering said to them, Think ye that these Galileans were sinners beyond all the Galileans because they suffered such things? <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> No, I say to you, but if ye repent not, ye shall all perish in the same manner. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them, think ye that they were debtors beyond all the men who dwell in Jerusalem? <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> No, I say to you, but if ye repent not, ye shall all perish in like manner.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he spoke this parable: A certain man had a fig-tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit upon it and did not find any. <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he said to the vinedresser, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig-tree and find none: cut it down; why does it also render the ground useless? <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But he answering says to him, Sir, let it alone for this year also, until I shall dig about it and put dung, <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and if it shall bear fruit--but if not, after that thou shalt cut it down.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And lo, there was a woman having a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and she was bent together and wholly unable to lift her head up. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jesus, seeing her, called to her, and said to her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he laid his hands upon her; and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But the ruler of the synagogue, indignant because Jesus healed on the sabbath, answering said to the crowd, There are six days in which people ought to work; in these therefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The Lord therefore answered him and said, Hypocrites! does not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the manger and leading it away, water it? <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And this woman, who is a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound, lo, these eighteen years, ought she not to be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day? <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And as he said these things, all who were opposed to him were ashamed; and all the crowd rejoiced at all the glorious things which were being done by him.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, To what is the kingdom of God like? and to what shall I liken it? <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> It is like a grain of mustard seed which a man took and cast into his garden; and it grew and became a great tree, and the birds of heaven lodged in its branches. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And again he said, To what shall I liken the kingdom of God? <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal until the whole was leavened. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he went through one city and village after another, teaching, and journeying to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And one said to him, Sir, are such as are to be saved few in number? But he said unto them, <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Strive with earnestness to enter in through the narrow door, for many, I say to you, will seek to enter in and will not be able. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> From the time that the master of the house shall have risen up and shall have shut the door, and ye shall begin to stand without and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, open to us; and he answering shall say to you, I know you not whence ye are: <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten in thy presence and drunk, and thou hast taught in our streets; <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and he shall say, I tell you, I do not know you whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> There shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but yourselves cast out. <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they shall come from east and west, and from north and south, and shall lie down at table in the kingdom of God. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And behold, there are last who shall be first, and there are first who shall be last.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The same hour certain Pharisees came up, saying to him, Get out, and go hence, for Herod is desirous to kill thee. <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And he said to them, Go, tell that fox, Behold, I cast out demons and accomplish cures to-day and to-morrow, and the third day I am perfected; <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> but I must needs walk to-day and to-morrow and the day following, for it must not be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. <a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those that are sent unto her, how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen her brood under her wings, and ye would not. <a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Behold, your house is left unto you; and I say unto you, that ye shall not see me until it come that ye say, Blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>