<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Luke 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Luke 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now after these things the Lord appointed seventy others also, and sent them two and two before his face into every city and place where he himself was about to come. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said to them, The harvest indeed is great, but the workmen few; supplicate therefore the Lord of the harvest that he may send out workmen into his harvest. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Go: behold I send you forth as lambs in the midst of wolves. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Carry neither purse nor scrip nor sandals, and salute no one on the way. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace to this house. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And if a son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it; but if not it shall turn to you again. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And in the same house abide, eating and drinking such things as they have; for the workman is worthy of his hire. Remove not from house to house. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And into whatsoever city ye may enter and they receive you, eat what is set before you, <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and heal the sick in it, and say to them, The kingdom of God is come nigh to you. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But into whatsoever city ye may have entered and they do not receive you, go out into its streets and say, <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Even the dust of your city, which cleaves to us on the feet, do we shake off against you; but know this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I say to you that it shall be more tolerable for Sodom in that day than for that city. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Woe to thee, Chorazin! woe to thee, Bethsaida! for if the works of power which have taken place in you had taken place in Tyre and Sidon, they had long ago repented, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the judgment than for you. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And thou, Capernaum, who hast been raised up to heaven, shalt be brought down even to hades. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He that hears you hears me; and he that rejects you rejects me; and he that rejects me rejects him that sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the seventy returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us through thy name. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said to them, I beheld Satan as lightning falling out of heaven. <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Behold, I give you the power of treading upon serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall in anywise injure you. <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yet in this rejoice not, that the spirits are subjected to you, but rejoice that your names are written in the heavens. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> In the same hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit and said, I praise thee, Father, Lord of the heaven and of the earth, that thou hast hid these things from wise and prudent, and hast revealed them to babes: yea, Father, for thus has it been well-pleasing in thy sight. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> All things have been delivered to me by my Father, and no one knows who the Son is but the Father, and who the Father is but the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son is pleased to reveal him. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And having turned to the disciples privately he said, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For I say to you that many prophets and kings have desired to see the things which ye behold, and did not see them; and to hear the things which ye hear, and did not hear them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And behold, a certain lawyer stood up tempting him, and saying, Teacher, having done what, shall I inherit life eternal? <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said to him, What is written in the law? how readest thou? <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thine understanding; and thy neighbour as thyself. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said to him, Thou hast answered right: this do and thou shalt live. <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But he, desirous of justifying himself, said to Jesus, And who is my neighbour? <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Jesus replying said, A certain man descended from Jerusalem to Jericho and fell into the hands of robbers, who also, having stripped him and inflicted wounds, went away leaving him in a half-dead state. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And a certain priest happened to go down that way, and seeing him, passed on on the opposite side; <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and in like manner also a Levite, being at the spot, came and looked at him and passed on on the opposite side. <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But a certain Samaritan journeying came to him, and seeing him, was moved with compassion, <a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and came up to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine; and having put him on his own beast, took him to the inn and took care of him. <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And on the morrow as he left, taking out two denarii he gave them to the innkeeper, and said to him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou shalt expend more, I will render to thee on my coming back. <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Which now of these three seems to thee to have been neighbour of him who fell into the hands of the robbers? <a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And he said, He that shewed him mercy. And Jesus said to him, Go, and do thou likewise.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And it came to pass as they went that he entered into a certain village; and a certain woman, Martha by name, received him into her house. <a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And she had a sister called Mary, who also, having sat down at the feet of Jesus was listening to his word. <a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Now Martha was distracted with much serving, and coming up she said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Speak to her therefore that she may help me. <a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> But Jesus answering said to her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things; <a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> but there is need of one, and Mary has chosen the good part, the which shall not be taken from her.</p>

</body>
</html>