<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These things I have spoken unto you that ye may not be offended. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They shall put you out of the synagogues; but the hour is coming that every one who kills you will think to render service to God; <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and these things they will do because they have not known the Father nor me. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But I have spoken these things to you, that when their hour shall have come, ye may remember them, that I have said them unto you. But I did not say these things unto you from the beginning, because I was with you. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But now I go to him that has sent me, and none of you demands of me, Where goest thou? <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But I say the truth to you, It is profitable for you that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Comforter will not come to you; but if I go I will send him to you. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And having come, he will bring demonstration to the world, of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> of sin, because they do not believe on me; <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> of righteousness, because I go away to my Father, and ye behold me no longer; <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> of judgment, because the ruler of this world is judged. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have yet many things to say to you, but ye cannot bear them now. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But when he is come, the Spirit of truth, he shall guide you into all the truth: for he shall not speak from himself; but whatsoever he shall hear he shall speak; and he will announce to you what is coming. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He shall glorify me, for he shall receive of mine and shall announce it to you. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All things that the Father has are mine; on account of this I have said that he receives of mine and shall announce it to you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A little while and ye do not behold me; and again a little while and ye shall see me, because I go away to the Father. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Some of his disciples therefore said to one another, What is this he says to us, A little while and ye do not behold me; and again a little while and ye shall see me, and, Because I go away to the Father? <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> They said therefore, What is this which he says of the little while? We do not know of what he speaks. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jesus knew therefore that they desired to demand of him, and said to them, Do ye inquire of this among yourselves that I said, A little while and ye do not behold me; and again a little while and ye shall see me? <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Verily, verily, I say to you, that ye shall weep and lament, ye, but the world shall rejoice; and ye will be grieved, but your grief shall be turned to joy. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A woman, when she gives birth to a child, has grief because her hour has come; but when the child is born, she no longer remembers the trouble, on account of the joy that a man has been born into the world. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And ye now therefore have grief; but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no one takes from you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And in that day ye shall demand nothing of me: verily, verily, I say to you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give you. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Hitherto ye have asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full. <a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These things I have spoken to you in allegories; the hour is coming that I will no longer speak to you in allegories, but will declare to you openly concerning the Father. <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> In that day ye shall ask in my name; and I say not to you that I will demand of the Father for you, <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> for the Father himself has affection for you, because ye have had affection for me, and have believed that I came out from God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I came out from the Father and have come into the world; again, I leave the world and go to the Father. <a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> His disciples say to him, Lo, now thou speakest openly and utterest no allegory. <a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now we know that thou knowest all things, and hast not need that any one should demand of thee. By this we believe that thou art come from God. <a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe? <a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Behold, the hour is coming, and has come, that ye shall be scattered, each to his own, and shall leave me alone; and yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me. <a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> These things have I spoken to you that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye have tribulation; but be of good courage: I have overcome the world.</p>

</body>
</html>