<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Jesus went to the mount of Olives. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came to him; and he sat down and taught them. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the scribes and the Pharisees bring to him a woman taken in adultery, and having set her in the midst, <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> they say to him, Teacher, this woman has been taken in the very act, committing adultery. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now in the law Moses has commanded us to stone such; thou therefore, what sayest thou? <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But this they said proving him, that they might have something to accuse him of. But Jesus, having stooped down, wrote with his finger on the ground. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But when they continued asking him, he lifted himself up and said to them, Let him that is without sin among you first cast the stone at her. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And again stooping down he wrote on the ground. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But they, having heard that, went out one by one beginning from the elder ones until the last; and Jesus was left alone and the woman standing there. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Jesus, lifting himself up and seeing no one but the woman, said to her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Has no one condemned thee? <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And she said, No one, sir. And Jesus said to her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Again therefore Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world; he that follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The Pharisees therefore said to him, Thou bearest witness concerning thyself; thy witness is not true. <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Jesus answered and said to them, Even if I bear witness concerning myself, my witness is true, because I know whence I came and whither I go: but ye know not whence I come and whither I go. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Ye judge according to the flesh, I judge no one. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if also I judge, my judgment is true, because I am not alone, but I and the Father who has sent me. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And in your law too it is written that the testimony of two men is true: <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I am one who bear witness concerning myself, and the Father who has sent me bears witness concerning me. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They said to him therefore, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye know neither me nor my Father. If ye had known me, ye would have known also my Father. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These words spoke he in the treasury, teaching in the temple; and no one took him, for his hour was not yet come.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He said therefore again to them, I go away, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sin; where I go ye cannot come. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Jews therefore said, Will he kill himself, that he says, Where I go ye cannot come? <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said to them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above. Ye are of this world; I am not of this world. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> I said therefore to you, that ye shall die in your sins; for unless ye shall believe that I am he, ye shall die in your sins. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They said therefore to him, Who art thou? And Jesus said to them, Altogether that which I also say to you. <a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I have many things to say and to judge concerning you, but he that has sent me is true, and I, what I have heard from him, these things I say to the world. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They knew not that he spoke to them of the Father. <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Jesus therefore said to them, When ye shall have lifted up the Son of man, then ye shall know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself, but as the Father has taught me I speak these things. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he that has sent me is with me; he has not left me alone, because I do always the things that are pleasing to him. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> As he spoke these things many believed on him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jesus therefore said to the Jews who believed him, If ye abide in my word, ye are truly my disciples; <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> They answered him, We are Abraham's seed, and have never been under bondage to any one; how sayest thou, Ye shall become free? <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say to you, Every one that practises sin is the bondman of sin. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Now the bondman abides not in the house for ever: the son abides for ever. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> If therefore the Son shall set you free, ye shall be really free. <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> I know that ye are Abraham's seed; but ye seek to kill me, because my word has no entrance in you.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I speak what I have seen with my Father, and ye then do what ye have seen with your father. <a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> They answered and said to him, Abraham is our father. Jesus says to them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham; <a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> but now ye seek to kill me, a man who has spoken the truth to you, which I have heard from God: this did not Abraham. <a id="c8_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Ye do the works of your father. They said therefore to him, We are not born of fornication; we have one father, God. <a id="c8_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Jesus said to them, If God were your father ye would have loved me, for I came forth from God and am come from him; for neither am I come of myself, but he has sent me. <a id="c8_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Why do ye not know my speech? Because ye cannot hear my word. <a id="c8_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Ye are of the devil, as your father, and ye desire to do the lusts of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and has not stood in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaks falsehood, he speaks of what is his own; for he is a liar and its father: <a id="c8_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and because I speak the truth, ye do not believe me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Which of you convinces me of sin? If I speak truth, why do ye not believe me? <a id="c8_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> He that is of God hears the words of God: therefore ye hear them not, because ye are not of God. <a id="c8_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> The Jews answered and said to him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan and hast a demon? <a id="c8_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Jesus answered, I have not a demon; but I honour my Father, and ye dishonour me. <a id="c8_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But I do not seek my own glory: there is he that seeks and judges.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, If any one shall keep my word, he shall never see death. <a id="c8_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> The Jews therefore said to him, Now we know that thou hast a demon. Abraham has died, and the prophets, and thou sayest, If any one keep my word, he shall never taste death. <a id="c8_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Art thou greater than our father Abraham, who has died? and the prophets have died: whom makest thou thyself? <a id="c8_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> Jesus answered, If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing: it is my Father who glorifies me, of whom ye say, He is our God. <a id="c8_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And ye know him not; but I know him; and if I said, I know him not, I should be like you, a liar. But I know him, and I keep his word. <a id="c8_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Your father Abraham exulted in that he should see my day, and he saw and rejoiced. <a id="c8_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> The Jews therefore said to him, Thou hast not yet fifty years, and hast thou seen Abraham? <a id="c8_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> Jesus said to them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am. <a id="c8_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> They took up therefore stones that they might cast them at him; but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and thus passed on.</p>

</body>
</html>