<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And on the third day a marriage took place in Cana of Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Jesus also, and his disciples, were invited to the marriage. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And wine being deficient, the mother of Jesus says to him, They have no wine. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Jesus says to her, What have I to do with thee, woman? mine hour has not yet come. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> His mother says to the servants, Whatever he may say to you, do. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now there were standing there six stone water-vessels, according to the purification of the Jews, holding two or three measures each. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus says to them, Fill the water-vessels with water. And they filled them up to the brim. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he says to them, Draw out now, and carry it to the feast-master. And they carried it. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But when the feast-master had tasted the water which had been made wine (and knew not whence it was, but the servants knew who drew the water), the feast-master calls the bridegroom, <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and says to him, Every man sets on first the good wine, and when men have well drunk, then the inferior; thou hast kept the good wine till now. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This beginning of signs did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested his glory; and his disciples believed on him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> After this he descended to Capernaum, he and his mother and his brethren and his disciples; and there they abode not many days. <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the passover of the Jews was near, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he found in the temple the sellers of oxen and sheep and doves, and the money-changers sitting; <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and, having made a scourge of cords, he cast them all out of the temple, both the sheep and the oxen; and he poured out the change of the money-changers, and overturned the tables, <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and said to the sellers of doves, Take these things hence; make not my Father's house a house of merchandise. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And his disciples remembered that it is written, The zeal of thy house devours me. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Jews therefore answered and said to him, What sign shewest thou to us, that thou doest these things? <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jesus answered and said to them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The Jews therefore said, Forty and six years was this temple building, and thou wilt raise it up in three days? <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But he spoke of the temple of his body. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> When therefore he was raised from among the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and believed the scripture and the word which Jesus had spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when he was in Jerusalem, at the passover, at the feast, many believed on his name, beholding his signs which he wrought. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But Jesus himself did not trust himself to them, because he knew all men, <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and that he had not need that any should testify of man, for himself knew what was in man.</p>

</body>
</html>