<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Verily, verily, I say to you, He that enters not in by the door to the fold of the sheep, but mounts up elsewhere, he is a thief and a robber; <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> but he that enters in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To him the porter opens; and the sheep hear his voice; and he calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When he has put forth all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, because they know his voice. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But they will not follow a stranger, but will flee from him, because they know not the voice of strangers. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This allegory spoke Jesus to them, but they did not know what it was of which he spoke to them. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus therefore said again to them, Verily, verily, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers; but the sheep did not hear them. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I am the door: if any one enter in by me, he shall be saved, and shall go in and shall go out and shall find pasture. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The thief comes not but that he may steal, and kill, and destroy: I am come that they might have life, and might have it abundantly. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep: <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> but he who serves for wages, and who is not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, sees the wolf coming, and leaves the sheep and flees; and the wolf seizes them and scatters the sheep. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now he who serves for wages flees because he serves for wages, and is not himself concerned about the sheep. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am the good shepherd; and I know those that are mine, and am known of those that are mine, <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> as the Father knows me and I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I have other sheep which are not of this fold: those also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one flock, one shepherd. <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> On this account the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it again. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have authority to lay it down and I have authority to take it again. I have received this commandment of my Father.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> There was a division again among the Jews on account of these words; <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> but many of them said, He has a demon and raves; why do ye hear him? <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Others said, These sayings are not those of one that is possessed by a demon. Can a demon open blind people's eyes?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now the feast of the dedication was celebrating at Jerusalem, and it was winter. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Jesus walked in the temple in the porch of Solomon. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The Jews therefore surrounded him, and said to him, Until when dost thou hold our soul in suspense? If thou art the Christ, say so to us openly. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye do not believe. The works which I do in my Father's name, these bear witness concerning me: <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> but ye do not believe, for ye are not of my sheep, as I told you. <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me; <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and I give them life eternal; and they shall never perish, and no one shall seize them out of my hand. <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one can seize out of the hand of my Father. <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I and the Father are one. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The Jews therefore again took stones that they might stone him. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shewn you of my Father; for which work of them do ye stone me? <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The Jews answered him, For a good work we stone thee not, but for blasphemy, and because thou, being a man, makest thyself God. <a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods? <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> If he called them gods to whom the word of God came (and the scripture cannot be broken), <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> do ye say of him whom the Father has sanctified and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest, because I said, I am Son of God? <a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not; <a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> but if I do, even if ye believe not me, believe the works, that ye may know and believe that the Father is in me and I in him.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> They sought therefore again to take him; and he went away from out of their hand <a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and departed again beyond the Jordan to the place where John was baptising at the first: and he abode there. <a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And many came to him, and said, John did no sign; but all things which John said of this man were true. <a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And many believed on him there.</p>

</body>
</html>