<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He was in the beginning with God. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All things received being through him, and without him not one thing received being which has received being. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In him was life, and the life was the light of men.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the light appears in darkness, and the darkness apprehended it not. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> There was a man sent from God, his name John. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He came for witness, that he might witness concerning the light, that all might believe through him. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He was not the light, but that he might witness concerning the light. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The true light was that which, coming into the world, lightens every man. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He was in the world, and the world had its being through him, and the world knew him not. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He came to his own, and his own received him not; <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> but as many as received him, to them gave he the right to be children of God, to those that believe on his name; <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> who have been born, not of blood, nor of flesh's will, nor of man's will, but of God. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the Word became flesh, and dwelt among us (and we have contemplated his glory, a glory as of an only-begotten with a father), full of grace and truth;</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> (John bears witness of him, and he has cried, saying, This was he of whom I said, He that comes after me is preferred before me, for he was before me;) <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for of his fulness we all have received, and grace upon grace. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the law was given by Moses: grace and truth subsists through Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> No one has seen God at any time; the only-begotten Son, who is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And this is the witness of John, when the Jews sent from Jerusalem priests and Levites that they might ask him, Thou, who art thou? <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he acknowledged and denied not, and acknowledged, I am not the Christ. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he says, I am not. Art thou the prophet? And he answered, No. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> They said therefore to him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to those who sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the path of the Lord, as said Esaias the prophet. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they were sent from among the Pharisees. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they asked him and said to him, Why baptisest thou then, if thou art not the Christ, nor Elias, nor the prophet? <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> John answered them saying, I baptise with water. In the midst of you stands, whom ye do not know, <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> he who comes after me, the thong of whose sandal I am not worthy to unloose. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> These things took place in Bethany, across the Jordan, where John was baptising.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> On the morrow he sees Jesus coming to him, and says, Behold the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He it is of whom I said, A man comes after me who takes a place before me, because he was before me; <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and I knew him not; but that he might be manifested to Israel, therefore have I come baptising with water. <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And John bore witness, saying, I beheld the Spirit descending as a dove from heaven, and it abode upon him. <a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And I knew him not; but he who sent me to baptise with water, he said to me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending and abiding on him, he it is who baptises with the Holy Spirit. <a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And I have seen and borne witness that this is the Son of God. <a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Again, on the morrow, there stood John and two of his disciples. <a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And, looking at Jesus as he walked, he says, Behold the Lamb of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the two disciples heard him speaking, and followed Jesus. <a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But Jesus having turned, and seeing them following, says to them, What seek ye? And they said to him, Rabbi (which, being interpreted, signifies Teacher), where abidest thou? <a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> He says to them, Come and see. They went therefore, and saw where he abode; and they abode with him that day. It was about the tenth hour. <a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, was one of the two who heard this from John and followed him. <a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> He first finds his own brother Simon, and says to him, We have found the Messias (which being interpreted is Christ). <a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And he led him to Jesus. Jesus looking at him said, Thou art Simon, the son of Jonas; thou shalt be called Cephas (which interpreted is stone).</p>

<p><a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> On the morrow he would go forth into Galilee, and Jesus finds Philip, and says to him, Follow me. <a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And Philip was from Bethsaida, of the city of Andrew and Peter. <a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Philip finds Nathanael, and says to him, We have found him of whom Moses wrote in the law, and the prophets, Jesus, the son of Joseph, who is from Nazareth. <a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And Nathanael said to him, Can anything good come out of Nazareth? Philip says to him, Come and see. <a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and says of him, Behold one truly an Israelite, in whom there is no guile. <a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Nathanael says to him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said to him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig-tree, I saw thee. <a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Nathanael answered and said to him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God, thou art the King of Israel. <a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Jesus answered and said to him, Because I said to thee, I saw thee under the fig-tree, believest thou? Thou shalt see greater things than these. <a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And he says to him, Verily, verily, I say to you, Henceforth ye shall see the heaven opened, and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of man.</p>

</body>
</html>