<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And as he passed on, he saw a man blind from birth. <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he should be born blind? <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus answered, Neither has this man sinned nor his parents, but that the works of God should be manifested in him. <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I must work the works of him that has sent me while it is day. The night is coming, when no one can work. <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Having said these things, he spat on the ground and made mud of the spittle, and put the mud, as ointment, on his eyes. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he said to him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, which is interpreted, Sent. He went therefore and washed, and came seeing.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The neighbours therefore, and those who used to see him before, that he was a beggar, said, Is not this he that was sitting and begging? <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Some said, It is he; others said, No, but he is like him: he said, It is I. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They said therefore to him, How have thine eyes been opened? <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He answered and said, A man called Jesus made mud and anointed mine eyes, and said to me, Go to Siloam and wash: and having gone and washed, I saw. <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They said therefore to him, Where is he? He says, I do not know.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They bring him who was before blind to the Pharisees. <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now it was sabbath when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The Pharisees therefore also again asked him how he received his sight. And he said to them, He put mud upon mine eyes, and I washed, and I see. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Some of the Pharisees therefore said, This man is not of God, for he does not keep the sabbath. Others said, How can a sinful man perform such signs? And there was a division among them. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They say therefore again to the blind man, What dost thou say of him, that he has opened thine eyes? And he said, He is a prophet. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Jews therefore did not believe concerning him that he was blind and had received sight, until they had called the parents of him that had received sight. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they asked them saying, This is your son, of whom ye say that he was born blind: how then does he now see? <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind; <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but how he now sees we do not know, or who has opened his eyes we do not know. He is of age: ask him; he will speak concerning himself. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if any one confessed him to be the Christ, he should be excommunicated from the synagogue. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> On this account his parents said, He is of age: ask him. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They called therefore a second time the man who had been blind, and said to him, Give glory to God: we know that this man is sinful. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He answered therefore, If he is sinful I know not. One thing I know, that, being blind before, now I see. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they said to him again, What did he do to thee? how opened he thine eyes? <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He answered them, I told you already and ye did not hear: why do ye desire to hear again? do ye also wish to become his disciples? <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> They railed at him, and said, Thou art his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> We know that God spoke to Moses; but as to this man, we know not whence he is. <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The man answered and said to them, Now in this is a wonderful thing, that ye do not know whence he is, and he has opened mine eyes. <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But we know that God does not hear sinners; but if any one be God-fearing and do his will, him he hears. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Since time was, it has not been heard that any one opened the eyes of one born blind. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> If this man were not of God he would be able to do nothing. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> They answered and said to him, Thou hast been wholly born in sins, and thou teachest us? And they cast him out.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him, he said to him, Thou, dost thou believe on the Son of God? <a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He answered and said, And who is he, Lord, that I may believe on him? <a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Jesus said to him, Thou hast both seen him, and he that speaks with thee is he. <a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he said, I believe, Lord: and he did him homage.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Jesus said, For judgment am I come into this world, that they which see not may see, and they which see may become blind. <a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And some of the Pharisees who were with him heard these things, and they said to him, Are we blind also? <a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Jesus said to them, If ye were blind ye would not have sin; but now ye say, We see, your sin remains.</p>

</body>
</html>