<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When therefore the Lord knew that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus makes and baptises more disciples than John <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (however, Jesus himself did not baptise, but his disciples), <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> he left Judaea and went away again unto Galilee.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he must needs pass through Samaria. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He comes therefore to a city of Samaria called Sychar, near to the land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now a fountain of Jacob's was there; Jesus therefore, being wearied with the way he had come, sat just as he was at the fountain. It was about the sixth hour. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A woman comes out of Samaria to draw water. Jesus says to her, Give me to drink <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> (for his disciples had gone away into the city that they might buy provisions). <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The Samaritan woman therefore says to him, How dost thou, being a Jew, ask to drink of me who am a Samaritan woman? for Jews have no intercourse with Samaritans. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus answered and said to her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that says to thee, Give me to drink, thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The woman says to him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: whence then hast thou the living water? <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well, and drank of it himself, and his sons, and his cattle? <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jesus answered and said to her, Every one who drinks of this water shall thirst again; <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but whosoever drinks of the water which I shall give him shall never thirst for ever, but the water which I shall give him shall become in him a fountain of water, springing up into eternal life. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The woman says to him, Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst nor come here to draw. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus says to her, Go, call thy husband, and come here. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The woman answered and said, I have not a husband. Jesus says to her, Thou hast well said, I have not a husband; <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for thou hast had five husbands, and he whom now thou hast is not thy husband: this thou hast spoken truly. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The woman says to him, Sir, I see that thou art a prophet. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Our fathers worshipped in this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where one must worship. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus says to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when ye shall neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem worship the Father. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Ye worship ye know not what; we worship what we know, for salvation is of the Jews. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But the hour is coming and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and truth; for also the Father seeks such as his worshippers. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> God is a spirit; and they who worship him must worship him in spirit and truth. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The woman says to him, I know that Messias is coming, who is called Christ; when he comes he will tell us all things. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jesus says to her, I who speak to thee am he.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And upon this came his disciples, and wondered that he spoke with a woman; yet no one said, What seekest thou? or, Why speakest thou with her? <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The woman then left her waterpot and went away into the city, and says to the men, <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Come, see a man who told me all things I had ever done: is not he the Christ? <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They went out of the city and came to him. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But meanwhile the disciples asked him saying, Rabbi, eat. <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But he said to them, I have food to eat which ye do not know. <a id="c4_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The disciples therefore said to one another, Has any one brought him anything to eat? <a id="c4_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Jesus says to them, My food is that I should do the will of him that has sent me, and that I should finish his work. <a id="c4_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Do not ye say, that there are yet four months and the harvest comes? Behold, I say to you, Lift up your eyes and behold the fields, for they are already white to harvest. <a id="c4_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He that reaps receives wages and gathers fruit unto life eternal, that both he that sows and he that reaps may rejoice together. <a id="c4_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For in this is verified the true saying, It is one who sows and another who reaps. <a id="c4_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> I have sent you to reap that on which ye have not laboured; others have laboured, and ye have entered into their labours. <a id="c4_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him because of the word of the woman who bore witness, He told me all things that I had ever done. <a id="c4_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> When therefore the Samaritans came to him they asked him to abide with them, and he abode there two days. <a id="c4_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And more a great deal believed on account of his word; <a id="c4_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> and they said to the woman, It is no longer on account of thy saying that we believe, for we have heard him ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> But after the two days he went forth thence and went away into Galilee, <a id="c4_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> for Jesus himself bore witness that a prophet has no honour in his own country. <a id="c4_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> When therefore he came into Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all that he had done in Jerusalem during the feast, for they also went to the feast. <a id="c4_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> He came therefore again to Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain courtier in Capernaum whose son was sick. <a id="c4_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> He, having heard that Jesus had come out of Judaea into Galilee, went to him and asked him that he would come down and heal his son, for he was about to die. <a id="c4_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Jesus therefore said to him, Unless ye see signs and wonders ye will not believe. <a id="c4_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> The courtier says to him, Sir, come down ere my child die. <a id="c4_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Jesus says to him, Go, thy son lives. And the man believed the word which Jesus said to him, and went his way. <a id="c4_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> But already, as he was going down, his servants met him and brought him word saying, Thy child lives. <a id="c4_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> He inquired therefore from them the hour at which he got better. And they said to him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. <a id="c4_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> The father therefore knew that it was in that hour in which Jesus said to him, Thy son lives; and he believed, himself and his whole house. <a id="c4_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> This second sign again did Jesus, being come out of Judaea into Galilee.</p>

</body>
</html>