<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now before the feast of the passover, Jesus, knowing that his hour had come that he should depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, loved them to the end. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And during supper, the devil having already put it into the heart of Judas son of Simon, Iscariote, that he should deliver him up, <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Jesus, knowing that the Father had given him all things into his hands, and that he came out from God and was going to God, <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> rises from supper and lays aside his garments, and having taken a linen towel he girded himself: <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> then he pours water into the washhand basin, and began to wash the feet of the disciples, and to wipe them with the linen towel with which he was girded. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He comes therefore to Simon Peter; and he says to him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jesus answered and said to him, What I do thou dost not know now, but thou shalt know hereafter. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Peter says to him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, Unless I wash thee, thou hast not part with me. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Simon Peter says to him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Jesus says to him, He that is washed all over needs not to wash save his feet, but is wholly clean; and ye are clean, but not all. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he knew him that delivered him up: on account of this he said, Ye are not all clean. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When therefore he had washed their feet, and taken his garments, having sat down again, he said to them, Do ye know what I have done to you? <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Ye call me the Teacher and the Lord, and ye say well, for I am so. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If I therefore, the Lord and the Teacher, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet; <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for I have given you an example that, as I have done to you, ye should do also. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Verily, verily, I say to you, The bondman is not greater than his lord, nor the sent greater than he who has sent him. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If ye know these things, blessed are ye if ye do them.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I speak not of you all. I know those whom I have chosen; but that the scripture might be fulfilled, He that eats bread with me has lifted up his heel against me. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I tell you it now before it happens, that when it happens, ye may believe that I am he. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Verily, verily, I say to you, He who receives whomsoever I shall send receives me; and he that receives me receives him who has sent me. <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Having said these things, Jesus was troubled in spirit, and testified and said, Verily, verily, I say to you, that one of you shall deliver me up. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The disciples therefore looked one on another, doubting of whom he spoke. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now there was at table one of his disciples in the bosom of Jesus, whom Jesus loved. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Simon Peter makes a sign therefore to him to ask who it might be of whom he spoke. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But he, leaning on the breast of Jesus, says to him, Lord, who is it? <a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jesus answers, He it is to whom I, after I have dipped the morsel, give it. And having dipped the morsel, he gives it to Judas son of Simon, Iscariote. <a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And, after the morsel, then entered Satan into him. Jesus therefore says to him, What thou doest, do quickly. <a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But none of those at table knew why he said this to him; <a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> for some supposed, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus was saying to him, Buy the things of which we have need for the feast; or that he should give something to the poor. <a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Having therefore received the morsel, he went out immediately; and it was night.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> When therefore he was gone out Jesus says, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him. <a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If God be glorified in him, God also shall glorify him in himself, and shall glorify him immediately. <a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me; and, as I said to the Jews, Where I go ye cannot come, I say to you also now. <a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> A new commandment I give to you, that ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. <a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> By this shall all know that ye are disciples of mine, if ye have love amongst yourselves.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Simon Peter says to him, Lord, where goest thou? Jesus answered him, Where I go thou canst not follow me now, but thou shalt follow me after. <a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Peter says to him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thee. <a id="c13_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Jesus answers, Thou wilt lay down thy life for me! Verily, verily, I say to thee, The cock shall not crow till thou hast denied me thrice.</p>

</body>
</html>