<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe on God, believe also on me. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In my Father's house there are many abodes; were it not so, I had told you: for I go to prepare you a place; <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and if I go and shall prepare you a place, I am coming again and shall receive you to myself, that where I am ye also may be.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And ye know where I go, and ye know the way. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thomas says to him, Lord, we know not where thou goest, and how can we know the way? <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus says to him, I am the way, and the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father unless by me. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If ye had known me, ye would have known also my Father, and henceforth ye know him and have seen him. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Philip says to him, Lord, shew us the Father and it suffices us. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jesus says to him, Am I so long a time with you, and thou hast not known me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen the Father; and how sayest thou, Shew us the Father? <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in me? The words which I speak to you I do not speak from myself; but the Father who abides in me, he does the works. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Believe me that I am in the Father and the Father in me; but if not, believe me for the works' sake themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Verily, verily, I say to you, He that believes on me, the works which I do shall he do also, and he shall do greater than these, because I go to the Father. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, this will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If ye shall ask anything in my name, I will do it.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If ye love me, keep my commandments. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And I will beg the Father, and he will give you another Comforter, that he may be with you for ever, <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the Spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it does not see him nor know him; but ye know him, for he abides with you, and shall be in you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will not leave you orphans, I am coming to you. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yet a little and the world sees me no longer; but ye see me; because I live ye also shall live. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He that has my commandments and keeps them, he it is that loves me; but he that loves me shall be loved by my Father, and I will love him and will manifest myself to him. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Judas, not the Iscariote, says to him, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself to us and not to the world? <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Jesus answered and said to him, If any one love me, he will keep my word, and my Father will love him, and we will come to him and make our abode with him. <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He that loves me not does not keep my words; and the word which ye hear is not mine, but that of the Father who has sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> These things I have said to you, abiding with you; <a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> but the Comforter, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and will bring to your remembrance all the things which I have said to you. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I leave peace with you; I give my peace to you: not as the world gives do I give to you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it fear.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ye have heard that I have said unto you, I go away and I am coming to you. If ye loved me ye would rejoice that I go to the Father, for my Father is greater than I. <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And now I have told you before it comes to pass, that when it shall have come to pass ye may believe. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I will no longer speak much with you, for the ruler of the world comes, and in me he has nothing; <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> but that the world may know that I love the Father, and as the Father has commanded me, thus I do. Rise up, let us go hence.</p>

</body>
</html>