<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These things Jesus spoke, and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son may glorify thee; <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> as thou hast given him authority over all flesh, that as to all that thou hast given to him, he should give them life eternal. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this is the eternal life, that they should know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have glorified thee on the earth, I have completed the work which thou gavest me that I should do it; <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and now glorify me, thou Father, along with thyself, with the glory which I had along with thee before the world was.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have manifested thy name to the men whom thou gavest me out of the world. They were thine, and thou gavest them me, and they have kept thy word. <a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now they have known that all things that thou hast given me are of thee; <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for the words which thou hast given me I have given them, and they have received them, and have known truly that I came out from thee, and have believed that thou sentest me. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I demand concerning them; I do not demand concerning the world, but concerning those whom thou hast given me, for they are thine, <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> (and all that is mine is thine, and all that is thine mine,) and I am glorified in them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I am no longer in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name which thou hast given me, that they may be one as we. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When I was with them I kept them in thy name; those thou hast given me I have guarded, and not one of them has perished, but the son of perdition, that the scripture might be fulfilled. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And now I come to thee. And these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in them. <a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I have given them thy word, and the world has hated them, because they are not of the world, as I am not of the world. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I do not demand that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them out of evil. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They are not of the world, as I am not of the world.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Sanctify them by the truth: thy word is truth. <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> As thou hast sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world; <a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and I sanctify myself for them, that they also may be sanctified by truth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And I do not demand for these only, but also for those who believe on me through their word; <a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that they may be all one, as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. <a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the glory which thou hast given me I have given them, that they may be one, as we are one; <a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I in them and thou in me, that they may be perfected into one and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and that thou hast loved them as thou hast loved me.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Father, as to those whom thou hast given me, I desire that where I am they also may be with me, that they may behold my glory which thou hast given me, for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world. <a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Righteous Father, --and the world has not known thee, but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. <a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And I have made known to them thy name, and will make it known; that the love with which thou hast loved me may be in them and I in them.</p>

</body>
</html>