<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And on the first day of the week Mary of Magdala comes in early morn to the tomb, while it was still dark, and sees the stone taken away from the tomb. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> She runs therefore and comes to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, to whom Jesus was attached, and says to them, They have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we know not where they have laid him. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Peter therefore went forth, and the other disciple, and came to the tomb. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the two ran together, and the other disciple ran forward faster than Peter, and came first to the tomb, <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and stooping down he sees the linen cloths lying; he did not however go in. <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Simon Peter therefore comes, following him, and entered into the tomb, and sees the linen cloths lying, <a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the handkerchief which was upon his head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in a distinct place by itself. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then entered in therefore the other disciple also who came first to the tomb, and he saw and believed; <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for they had not yet known the scripture, that he must rise from among the dead. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The disciples therefore went away again to their own home.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But Mary stood at the tomb weeping without. As therefore she wept, she stooped down into the tomb, <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and beholds two angels sitting in white garments, one at the head and one at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. <a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they say to her, Woman, why dost thou weep? She says to them, Because they have taken away my Lord, and I know not where they have laid him. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Having said these things she turned backward and beholds Jesus standing there, and knew not that it was Jesus. <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Jesus says to her, Woman, why dost thou weep? Whom seekest thou? She, supposing that it was the gardener, says to him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away. <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus says to her, Mary. She, turning round, says to him in Hebrew, Rabboni, which means Teacher. <a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Jesus says to her, Touch me not, for I have not yet ascended to my Father; but go to my brethren and say to them, I ascend to my Father and your Father, and to my God and your God. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Mary of Magdala comes bringing word to the disciples that she had seen the Lord, and that he had said these things to her.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> When therefore it was evening on that day, which was the first day of the week, and the doors shut where the disciples were, through fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and says to them, Peace be to you. <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And having said this, he shewed to them his hands and his side. The disciples rejoiced therefore, having seen the Lord. <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus said therefore again to them, Peace be to you: as the Father sent me forth, I also send you. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And having said this, he breathed into them, and says to them, Receive the Holy Spirit: <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted to them; whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The other disciples therefore said to him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails, and put my finger into the mark of the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And eight days after, his disciples were again within, and Thomas with them. Jesus comes, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst and said, Peace be to you. <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then he says to Thomas, Bring thy finger here and see my hands; and bring thy hand and put it into my side; and be not unbelieving, but believing. <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord and my God. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jesus says to him, Because thou hast seen me thou hast believed: blessed they who have not seen and have believed. <a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Many other signs therefore also Jesus did before his disciples, which are not written in this book; <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> but these are written that ye may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing ye might have life in his name.</p>

</body>
</html>