<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after these things Jesus walked in Galilee, for he would not walk in Judaea, because the Jews sought to kill him. <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the tabernacles, the feast of the Jews, was near. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> His brethren therefore said to him, Remove hence and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may see thy works which thou doest; <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> for no one does anything in secret and himself seeks to be known in public. If thou doest these things, manifest thyself to the world: <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for neither did his brethren believe on him. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus therefore says to them, My time is not yet come, but your time is always ready. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The world cannot hate you, but me it hates, because I bear witness concerning it that its works are evil. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ye, go ye up to this feast. I go not up to this feast, for my time is not yet fulfilled. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Having said these things to them he abode in Galilee. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But when his brethren had gone up, then he himself also went up to the feast, not openly, but as in secret. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Jews therefore sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he? <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And there was much murmuring concerning him among the crowds. Some said, He is a good man; others said, No; but he deceives the crowd. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> However, no one spoke openly concerning him on account of their fear of the Jews.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But when it was now the middle of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The Jews therefore wondered, saying, How knows this man letters, having never learned? <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Jesus therefore answered them and said, My doctrine is not mine, but that of him that has sent me. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If any one desire to practise his will, he shall know concerning the doctrine, whether it is of God, or that I speak from myself. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He that speaks from himself seeks his own glory; but he that seeks the glory of him that has sent him, he is true, and unrighteousness is not in him. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Has not Moses given you the law, and no one of you practises the law? Why do ye seek to kill me? <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The crowd answered and said, Thou hast a demon: who seeks to kill thee? <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Jesus answered and said to them, I have done one work, and ye all wonder. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore Moses gave you circumcision (not that it is of Moses, but of the fathers), and ye circumcise a man on sabbath. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If a man receives circumcision on sabbath, that the law of Moses may not be violated, are ye angry with me because I have made a man entirely sound on sabbath? <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Judge not according to sight, but judge righteous judgment. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Some therefore of those of Jerusalem said, Is not this he whom they seek to kill? <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and behold, he speaks openly, and they say nothing to him. Have the rulers then indeed recognised that this is the Christ? <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But as to this man we know whence he is. Now as to the Christ, when he comes, no one knows whence he is. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying, Ye both know me and ye know whence I am; and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye do not know. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I know him, because I am from him, and he has sent me. <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> They sought therefore to take him; and no one laid his hand upon him, because his hour had not yet come. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But many of the crowd believed on him, and said, Will the Christ, when he comes, do more signs than those which this man has done? <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring these things concerning him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers that they might take him. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Jesus therefore said, Yet a little while I am with you, and I go to him that has sent me. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Ye shall seek me and shall not find me, and where I am ye cannot come. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The Jews therefore said to one another, Where is he about to go that we shall not find him? Is he about to go to the dispersion among the Greeks, and teach the Greeks? <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> What word is this which he said, Ye shall seek me and shall not find me; and where I am ye cannot come?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> In the last, the great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried saying, If any one thirst, let him come to me and drink. <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> He that believes on me, as the scripture has said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water. <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But this he said concerning the Spirit, which they that believed on him were about to receive; for the Spirit was not yet, because Jesus had not yet been glorified. <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Some out of the crowd therefore, having heard this word, said, This is truly the prophet. <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Others said, This is the Christ. Others said, Does then the Christ come out of Galilee? <a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Has not the scripture said that the Christ comes of the seed of David, and from the village of Bethlehem, where David was? <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> There was a division therefore in the crowd on account of him. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> But some of them desired to take him, but no one laid hands upon him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The officers therefore came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, Why have ye not brought him? <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The officers answered, Never man spoke thus, as this man speaks. <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> The Pharisees therefore answered them, Are ye also deceived? <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Has any one of the rulers believed on him, or of the Pharisees? <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> But this crowd, which does not know the law, are accursed. <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Nicodemus says to them (being one of themselves), <a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Does our law judge a man before it have first heard from himself, and know what he does? <a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> They answered and said to him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search and look, that no prophet arises out of Galilee. <a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And every one went to his home.</p>

</body>
</html>