<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>John 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>John 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now there is in Jerusalem, at the sheepgate, a pool, which is called in Hebrew, Bethesda, having five porches. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> In these lay a multitude of sick, blind, lame, withered, awaiting the moving of the water. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For an angel descended at a certain season in the pool and troubled the water. Whoever therefore first went in after the troubling of the water became well, whatever disease he laboured under. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But there was a certain man there who had been suffering under his infirmity thirty and eight years. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Jesus seeing this man lying there, and knowing that he was in that state now a great length of time, says to him, Wouldest thou become well? <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The infirm man answered him, Sir, I have not a man, in order, when the water has been troubled, to cast me into the pool; but while I am coming another descends before me. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jesus says to him, Arise, take up thy couch and walk. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And immediately the man became well, and took up his couch and walked: and on that day was sabbath. <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The Jews therefore said to the healed man, It is sabbath, it is not permitted thee to take up thy couch. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> He answered them, He that made me well, he said to me, Take up thy couch and walk. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> They asked him therefore, Who is the man who said to thee, Take up thy couch and walk? <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he that had been healed knew not who it was, for Jesus had slidden away, there being a crowd in the place. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> After these things Jesus finds him in the temple, and said to him, Behold, thou art become well: sin no more, that something worse do not happen to thee. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And for this the Jews persecuted Jesus and sought to kill him, because he had done these things on sabbath.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto and I work. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For this therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he had not only violated the sabbath, but also said that God was his own Father, making himself equal with God. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Jesus therefore answered and said to them, Verily, verily, I say to you, The Son can do nothing of himself save whatever he sees the Father doing: for whatever things he does, these things also the Son does in like manner. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the Father loves the Son and shews him all things which he himself does; and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may wonder. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For even as the Father raises the dead and quickens them, thus the Son also quickens whom he will: <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> for neither does the Father judge any one, but has given all judgment to the Son; <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> that all may honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He who honours not the Son, honours not the Father who has sent him. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, that he that hears my word, and believes him that has sent me, has life eternal, and does not come into judgment, but is passed out of death into life. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Verily, verily, I say unto you, that an hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that have heard shall live. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For even as the Father has life in himself, so he has given to the Son also to have life in himself, <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and has given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is Son of man. <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Wonder not at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs shall hear his voice, <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and shall go forth; those that have practised good, to resurrection of life, and those that have done evil, to resurrection of judgment. <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> I cannot do anything of myself; as I hear, I judge, and my judgment is righteous, because I do not seek my will, but the will of him that has sent me.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> If I bear witness concerning myself, my witness is not true. <a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> It is another who bears witness concerning me, and I know that the witness which he bears concerning me is true. <a id="c5_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Ye have sent unto John, and he has borne witness to the truth. <a id="c5_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But I do not receive witness from man, but I say this that ye might be saved. <a id="c5_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He was the burning and shining lamp, and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light. <a id="c5_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But I have the witness that is greater than that of John; for the works which the Father has given me that I should complete them, the works themselves which I do, bear witness concerning me that the Father has sent me. <a id="c5_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And the Father who has sent me himself has borne witness concerning me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor have seen his shape, <a id="c5_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and ye have not his word abiding in you; for whom he hath sent, him ye do not believe. <a id="c5_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Ye search the scriptures, for ye think that in them ye have life eternal, and they it is which bear witness concerning me; <a id="c5_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and ye will not come to me that ye might have life. <a id="c5_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> I do not receive glory from men, <a id="c5_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> but I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you. <a id="c5_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not; if another come in his own name, him ye will receive. <a id="c5_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> How can ye believe, who receive glory one of another, and seek not the glory which comes from God alone? <a id="c5_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Think not that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one who accuses you, Moses, on whom ye trust; <a id="c5_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> for if ye had believed Moses, ye would have believed me, for he wrote of me. <a id="c5_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> But if ye do not believe his writings, how shall ye believe my words?</p>

</body>
</html>