<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the high priest said, Are these things then so? <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he said, Brethren and fathers, hearken. The God of glory appeared to our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran, <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and said to him, Go out of thy land and out of thy kindred, and come into the land which I will shew thee. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then going out of the land of the Chaldeans he dwelt in Charran, and thence, after his father died, he removed him into this land in which ye now dwell. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he did not give him an inheritance in it, not even what his foot could stand on; and promised to give it to him for a possession, and to his seed after him, when he had no child. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And God spoke thus: His seed shall be a sojourner in a strange land, and they shall enslave them and evil entreat them four hundred years; <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the nation to which they shall be in bondage will I judge, said God; and after these things they shall come forth and serve me in this place. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he gave to him the covenant of circumcision; and thus he begat Isaac and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac Jacob, and Jacob the twelve patriarchs. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the patriarchs, envying Joseph, sold him away into Egypt. And God was with him, <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and delivered him out of all his tribulations, and gave him favour and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he appointed him chief over Egypt and all his house. <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But a famine came upon all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and great distress, and our fathers found no food. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But Jacob, having heard of there being corn in Egypt, sent out our fathers first; <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren, and the family of Joseph became known to Pharaoh. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Joseph sent and called down to him his father Jacob and all his kindred, seventy-five souls. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Jacob went down into Egypt and died, he and our fathers, <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and were carried over to Sychem and placed in the sepulchre which Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Emmor the father of Sychem.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But as the time of promise drew near which God had promised to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt, <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> until another king over Egypt arose who did not know Joseph. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He dealt subtilly with our race, and evil entreated the fathers, casting out their infants that they might not live. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In which time Moses was born, and was exceedingly lovely, who was nourished three months in the house of his father. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And when he was cast out, the daughter of Pharaoh took him up, and brought him up for herself to be for a son. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in his words and deeds. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And when a period of forty years was fulfilled to him, it came into his heart to look upon his brethren, the sons of Israel; <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and seeing a certain one wronged, he defended him, and avenged him that was being oppressed, smiting the Egyptian. <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he thought that his brethren would understand that God by his hand was giving them deliverance. But they understood not. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And on the morrow he shewed himself to them as they were contending, and compelled them to peace, saying, Ye are brethren, why do ye wrong one another? <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But he that was wronging his neighbour thrust him away, saying, Who established thee ruler and judge over us? <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Dost thou wish to kill me as thou killedst the Egyptian yesterday? <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Moses fled at this saying, and became a sojourner in the land of Madiam, where he begat two sons.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And when forty years were fulfilled, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of mount Sinai, in a flame of fire of a bush. <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Moses seeing it wondered at the vision; and as he went up to consider it, there was a voice of the Lord, <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> I am the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob. And Moses trembled, and durst not consider it. <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the Lord said to him, Loose the sandal of thy feet, for the place on which thou standest is holy ground. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> I have surely seen the ill treatment of my people which is in Egypt, and I have heard their groan, and have come down to take them out of it; and now, come, I will send thee to Egypt. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> This Moses, whom they refused, saying, Who made thee ruler and judge? him did God send to be a ruler and deliverer with the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush. <a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> He led them out, having wrought wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the Red sea, and in the wilderness forty years. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> This is the Moses who said to the sons of Israel, A prophet shall God raise up to you out of your brethren like me him shall ye hear. <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> This is he who was in the assembly in the wilderness, with the angel who spoke to him in the mount Sinai, and with our fathers; who received living oracles to give to us; <a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> to whom our fathers would not be subject, but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned back to Egypt, <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> saying to Aaron, Make us gods who shall go before us; for this Moses, who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we know not what has happened to him. <a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> But God turned and delivered them up to serve the host of heaven; as it is written in the book of the prophets, Have ye offered me victims and sacrifices forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? <a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Yea, ye took up the tent of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan, the forms which ye made to do homage to them; and I will transport you beyond Babylon. <a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Our fathers had the tent of the testimony in the wilderness, as he that spoke to Moses commanded to make it according to the model which he had seen; <a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> which also our fathers, receiving from their predecessors, brought in with Joshua when they entered into possession of the lands of the nations, whom God drove out from the face of our fathers, until the days of David; <a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> who found favour before God, and asked to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob; <a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> but Solomon built him a house. <a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> But the Most High dwells not in places made with hands; as says the prophet, <a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> The heaven is my throne and the earth the footstool of my feet: what house will ye build me? saith the Lord, or where is the place of my rest? <a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> has not my hand made all these things?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> O stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Spirit; as your fathers, ye also. <a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? and they have slain those who announced beforehand concerning the coming of the Just One, of whom ye have now become deliverers up and murderers! <a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> who have received the law as ordained by the ministry of angels, and have not kept it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And hearing these things they were cut to the heart, and gnashed their teeth against him. <a id="c7_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> But being full of the Holy Spirit, having fixed his eyes on heaven, he saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God, <a id="c7_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> and said, Lo, I behold the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing at the right hand of God. <a id="c7_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> And they cried out with a loud voice, and held their ears, and rushed upon him with one accord; <a id="c7_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> and having cast him out of the city, they stoned him. And the witnesses laid aside their clothes at the feet of a young man called Saul. <a id="c7_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And they stoned Stephen, praying, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. <a id="c7_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And kneeling down, he cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And having said this, he fell asleep.</p>

</body>
</html>