<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But after the tumult had ceased, Paul having called the disciples to him and embraced them, went away to go to Macedonia. <a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And having passed through those parts, and having exhorted them with much discourse, he came to Greece. <a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And having spent three months there, a treacherous plot against him having been set on foot by the Jews, as he was going to sail to Syria, the resolution was adopted of returning through Macedonia. <a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And there accompanied him as far as Asia, Sopater son of Pyrrhus, a Berean; and of Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus, and Gaius and Timotheus of Derbe, and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus. <a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> These going before waited for us in Troas; <a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and we came to them to Troas in five days, where we spent seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the first day of the week, we being assembled to break bread, Paul discoursed to them, about to depart on the morrow. And he prolonged the discourse till midnight. <a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there were many lights in the upper room where we were assembled. <a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And a certain youth, by name Eutychus, sitting at the window-opening, overpowered by deep sleep, while Paul discoursed very much at length, having been overpowered by the sleep, fell from the third story down to the bottom, and was taken up dead. <a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But Paul descending fell upon him, and enfolding him in his arms, said, Be not troubled, for his life is in him. <a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And having gone up, and having broken the bread, and eaten, and having long spoken until daybreak, so he went away. <a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they brought away the boy alive, and were no little comforted.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And we, having gone before on board ship, sailed off to Assos, going to take in Paul there; for so he had directed, he himself being about to go on foot. <a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when he met with us at Assos, having taken him on board, we came to Mitylene; <a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and having sailed thence, on the morrow arrived opposite Chios, and the next day put in at Samos; and having stayed at Trogyllium, the next day we came to Miletus: <a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for Paul thought it desirable to sail by Ephesus, so that he might not be made to spend time in Asia; for he hastened, if it was possible for him, to be the day of Pentecost at Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But from Miletus having sent to Ephesus, he called over to him the elders of the assembly. <a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And when they were come to him, he said to them, Ye know how I was with you all the time from the first day that I arrived in Asia, <a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> serving the Lord with all lowliness, and tears, and temptations, which happened to me through the plots of the Jews; <a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> how I held back nothing of what is profitable, so as not to announce it to you, and to teach you publicly and in every house, <a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> testifying to both Jews and Greeks repentance towards God, and faith towards our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And now, behold, bound in my spirit I go to Jerusalem, not knowing what things shall happen to me in it; <a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> only that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city, saying that bonds and tribulations await me. <a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But I make no account of my life as dear to myself, so that I finish my course, and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the glad tidings of the grace of God. <a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I have gone about preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more. <a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Wherefore I witness to you this day, that I am clean from the blood of all, <a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> for I have not shrunk from announcing to you all the counsel of God. <a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Take heed therefore to yourselves, and to all the flock, wherein the Holy Spirit has set you as overseers, to shepherd the assembly of God, which he has purchased with the blood of his own. <a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> ForI know this, that there will come in amongst you after my departure grievous wolves, not sparing the flock; <a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and from among your own selves shall rise up men speaking perverted things to draw away the disciples after them. <a id="c20_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Wherefore watch, remembering that for three years, night and day, I ceased not admonishing each one of you with tears. <a id="c20_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And now I commit you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and give to you an inheritance among all the sanctified. <a id="c20_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> I have coveted the silver or gold or clothing of no one. <a id="c20_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Yourselves know that these hands have ministered to my wants, and to those who were with me. <a id="c20_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I have shewed you all things, that thus labouring we ought to come in aid of the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that he himself said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And having said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all. <a id="c20_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And they all wept sore; and falling upon the neck of Paul they ardently kissed him, <a id="c20_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> specially pained by the word which he had said, that they would no more see his face. And they went down with him to the ship.</p>

</body>
</html>