<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Agrippa said to Paul, It is permitted thee to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretching out his hand answered in his defence: <a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I count myself happy, king Agrippa, in having to answer to-day before thee concerning all of which I am accused by the Jews, <a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> especially because thou art acquainted with all the customs and questions which are among the Jews; wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently. <a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> My manner of life then from my youth, which from its commencement was passed among my nation in Jerusalem, know all the Jews, <a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> who knew me before from the outset of my life, if they would bear witness, that according to the strictest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee. <a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now I stand to be judged because of the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers, <a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> to which our whole twelve tribes serving incessantly day and night hope to arrive; about which hope, O king, I am accused of the Jews. <a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Why should it be judged a thing incredible in your sight if God raises the dead? <a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I indeed myself thought that I ought to do much against the name of Jesus the Nazaraean. <a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Which also I did in Jerusalem, and myself shut up in prisons many of the saints, having received the authority from the chief priests; and when they were put to death I gave my vote. <a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And often punishing them in all the synagogues, I compelled them to blaspheme. And, being exceedingly furious against them, I persecuted them even to cities out of our own land.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when, engaged in this, I was journeying to Damascus, with authority and power from the chief priests, <a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> at mid-day, on the way, I saw, O king, a light above the brightness of the sun, shining from heaven round about me and those who were journeying with me. <a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And, when we were all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? it is hard for thee to kick against goads. <a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: <a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> but rise up and stand on thy feet; for, for this purpose have I appeared to thee, to appoint thee to be a servant and a witness both of what thou hast seen, and of what I shall appear to thee in, <a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> taking thee out from among the people, and the nations, to whom I send thee, <a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> to open their eyes, that they may turn from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive remission of sins and inheritance among them that are sanctified by faith in me. <a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whereupon, king Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision; <a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> but have, first to those both in Damascus and Jerusalem, and to all the region of Judaea, and to the nations, announced that they should repent and turn to God, doing works worthy of repentance. <a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> On account of these things the Jews, having seized me in the temple, attempted to lay hands on and destroy me. <a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Having therefore met with the help which is from God, I have stood firm unto this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying nothing else than those things which both the prophets and Moses have said should happen, <a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> namely, whether Christ should suffer; whether he first, through resurrection of the dead, should announce light both to the people and to the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And as he answered for his defence with these things, Festus says with a loud voice, Thou art mad, Paul; much learning turns thee to madness. <a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But Paul said, I am not mad, most excellent Festus, but utter words of truth and soberness; <a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for the king is informed about these things, to whom also I speak with all freedom. For I am persuaded that of these things nothing is hidden from him; for this was not done in a corner. <a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest. <a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Agrippa said to Paul, In a little thou persuadest me to become a Christian. <a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Paul said, I would to God, both in little and in much, that not only thou, but all who have heard me this day, should become such as I also am, except these bonds. <a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the king stood up, and the governor and Bernice, and those who sat with them, <a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and having gone apart, they spoke to one another saying, This man does nothing worthy of death or of bonds. <a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Agrippa said to Festus, This man might have been let go if he had not appealed to Caesar.</p>

</body>
</html>