<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after five days came down the high priest Ananias, with the elders, and a certain orator called Tertullus, and laid their informations against Paul before the governor. <a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he having been called, Tertullus began to accuse, saying, Seeing we enjoy great peace through thee, and that excellent measures are executed for this nation by thy forethought, <a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> we receive it always and everywhere, most excellent Felix, with all thankfulness. <a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But that I may not too much intrude on thy time, I beseech thee to hear us briefly in thy kindness. <a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For finding this man a pest, and moving sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a leader of the sect of the Nazaraeans; <a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who also attempted to profane the temple; whom we also had seized, and would have judged according to our law; <a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> but Lysias, the chiliarch, coming up, took him away with great force out of our hands, <a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> having commanded his accusers to come to thee; <a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the Jews also joined in pressing the matter against Paul, saying that these things were so.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But Paul, the governor having beckoned to him to speak, answered, Knowing that for many years thou hast been judge to this nation, I answer readily as to the things which concern myself. <a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> As thou mayest know that there are not more than twelve days since I went up to worship at Jerusalem, <a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and neither in the temple did they find me discoursing to any one, or making any tumultuous gathering together of the crowd, nor in the synagogues, nor in the city; <a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> neither can they make good the things of which they now accuse me. <a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But this I avow to thee, that in the way which they call sect, so I serve my fathers' God, believing all things which are written throughout the law, and in the prophets; <a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> having hope towards God, which they themselves also receive, that there is to be a resurrection both of just and unjust. <a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For this cause I also exercise myself to have in everything a conscience without offence towards God and men. <a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And after a lapse of many years I arrived, bringing alms to my nation, and offerings. <a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whereupon they found me purified in the temple, with neither crowd nor tumult. But it was certain Jews from Asia, <a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> who ought to appear before thee and accuse, if they have anything against me; <a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> or let these themselves say what wrong they found in me when I stood before the council, <a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> other than concerning this one voice which I cried standing amongst them: I am judged this day by you touching the resurrection of the dead.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Felix, knowing accurately the things concerning the way, adjourned them, saying, When Lysias the chiliarch is come down I will determine your affair; <a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> ordering the centurion to keep him, and that he should have freedom, and to hinder none of his friends to minister to him. <a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And after certain days, Felix having arrived with Drusilla his wife, who was a Jewess, he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith in Christ. <a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And as he reasoned concerning righteousness, and temperance, and the judgment about to come, Felix, being filled with fear, answered, Go for the present, and when I get an opportunity I will send for thee; <a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> hoping at the same time that money would be given him by Paul: wherefore also he sent for him the oftener and communed with him. <a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But when two years were completed, Felix was relieved by Porcius Festus as his successor; and Felix, desirous to oblige the Jews, to acquire their favour, left Paul bound.</p>

</body>
</html>