<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when the day of Pentecost was now accomplishing, they were all together in one place. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And there came suddenly a sound out of heaven as of a violent impetuous blowing, and filled all the house where they were sitting. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And there appeared to them parted tongues, as of fire, and it sat upon each one of them. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave to them to speak forth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, pious men, from every nation of those under heaven. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But the rumour of this having spread, the multitude came together and were confounded, because each one heard them speaking in his own dialect. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And all were amazed and wondered, saying, Behold, are not all these who are speaking Galilaeans? <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and how do we hear them each in our own dialect in which we have been born, <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and those who inhabit Mesopotamia, and Judaea, and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> both Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt, and the parts of Libya which adjoin Cyrene, and the Romans sojourning here, both Jews and proselytes, <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Cretans and Arabians, we hear them speaking in our own tongues the great things of God? <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they were all amazed and in perplexity, saying one to another, What would this mean? <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But others mocking said, They are full of new wine.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice and spoke forth to them, Men of Judaea, and all ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give heed to my words: <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for these are not full of wine, as ye suppose, for it is the third hour of the day; <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> but this is that which was spoken through the prophet Joel, <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And it shall be in the last days, saith God, that I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your elders shall dream with dreams; <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> yea, even upon my bondmen and upon my bondwomen in those days will I pour out of my Spirit, and they shall prophesy. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I will give wonders in the heaven above and signs on the earth below, blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke: <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> the sun shall be changed to darkness and the moon to blood, before the great and gloriously appearing day of the Lord come. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And it shall be that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus the Nazaraean, a man borne witness to by God to you by works of power and wonders and signs, which God wrought by him in your midst, as yourselves know <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> --him, given up by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye, by the hand of lawless men, have crucified and slain. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Whom God has raised up, having loosed the pains of death, inasmuch as it was not possible that he should be held by its power; <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> for David says as to him, I foresaw the Lord continually before me, because he is at my right hand that I may not be moved. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Therefore has my heart rejoiced and my tongue exulted; yea more, my flesh also shall dwell in hope, <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> for thou wilt not leave my soul in hades, nor wilt thou give thy gracious one to see corruption. <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Thou hast made known to me the paths of life, thou wilt fill me with joy with thy countenance. <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Brethren, let it be allowed to speak with freedom to you concerning the patriarch David, that he has both died and been buried, and his monument is amongst us unto this day. <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn to him with an oath, of the fruit of his loins to set upon his throne; <a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> he, seeing it before, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that neither has he been left in hades nor his flesh seen corruption. <a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> This Jesus has God raised up, whereof all we are witnesses. <a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Having therefore been exalted by the right hand of God, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this which ye behold and hear. <a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For David has not ascended into the heavens, but he says himself, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit at my right hand <a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> until I have put thine enemies to be the footstool of thy feet. <a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Let the whole house of Israel therefore know assuredly that God has made him, this Jesus whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And having heard it they were pricked in heart, and said to Peter and the other apostles, What shall we do, brethren? <a id="c2_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Peter said to them, Repent, and be baptised, each one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for remission of sins, and ye will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. <a id="c2_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> For to you is the promise and to your children, and to all who are afar off, as many as the Lord our God may call. <a id="c2_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, Be saved from this perverse generation. <a id="c2_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Those then who had accepted his word were baptised; and there were added in that day about three thousand souls.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And they persevered in the teaching and fellowship of the apostles, in breaking of bread and prayers. <a id="c2_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And fear was upon every soul, and many wonders and signs took place through the apostles' means. <a id="c2_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And all that believed were together, and had all things common, <a id="c2_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and sold their possessions and substance, and distributed them to all, according as any one might have need. <a id="c2_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> And every day, being constantly in the temple with one accord, and breaking bread in the house, they received their food with gladness and simplicity of heart, <a id="c2_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> praising God, and having favour with all the people; and the Lord added to the assembly daily those that were to be saved.</p>

</body>
</html>