<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But in those days, the disciples multiplying in number, there arose a murmuring of the Hellenists against the Hebrews because their widows were overlooked in the daily ministration. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the twelve, having called the multitude of the disciples to them, said, It is not right that we, leaving the word of God, should serve tables. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Look out therefore, brethren, from among yourselves seven men, well reported of, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we will establish over this business: <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but we will give ourselves up to prayer and the ministry of the word. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas, a proselyte of Antioch, <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> whom they set before the apostles; and, having prayed, they laid their hands on them. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples in Jerusalem was very greatly multiplied, and a great crowd of the priests obeyed the faith.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Stephen, full of grace and power, wrought wonders and great signs among the people. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And there arose up certain of those of the synagogue called of freedmen, and of Cyrenians, and of Alexandrians, and of those of Cilicia and Asia, disputing with Stephen. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the Spirit with which he spoke. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then they suborned men, saying, We have heard him speaking blasphemous words against Moses and God. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they roused the people, and the elders, and the scribes. And coming upon him they seized him and brought him to the council. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they set false witnesses, saying, This man does not cease speaking words against the holy place and the law; <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for we have heard him saying, This Jesus the Nazaraean shall destroy this place, and change the customs which Moses taught us. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And all who sat in the council, looking fixedly on him, saw his face as the face of an angel.</p>

</body>
</html>