<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I composed the first discourse, O Theophilus, concerning all things which Jesus began both to do and to teach, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> until that day in which, having by the Holy Spirit charged the apostles whom he had chosen, he was taken up; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> to whom also he presented himself living, after he had suffered, with many proofs; being seen by them during forty days, and speaking of the things which concern the kingdom of God; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and, being assembled with them, commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to await the promise of the Father, which said he ye have heard of me. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For John indeed baptised with water, but ye shall be baptised with the Holy Spirit after now not many days.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They therefore, being come together, asked him saying, Lord, is it at this time that thou restorest the kingdom to Israel? <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he said to them, It is not yours to know times or seasons, which the Father has placed in his own authority; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but ye will receive power, the Holy Spirit having come upon you, and ye shall be my witnesses both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And having said these things he was taken up, they beholding him, and a cloud received him out of their sight. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And as they were gazing into heaven, as he was going, behold, also two men stood by them in white clothing, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> who also said, Men of Galilee, why do ye stand looking into heaven? This Jesus who has been taken up from you into heaven, shall thus come in the manner in which ye have beheld him going into heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called the mount of Olives, which is near Jerusalem, a sabbath-day's journey off. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when they were come into the city, they went up to the upper chamber, where were staying both Peter, and John, and James, and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James son of Alphaeus, and Simon the zealot, and Jude the brother of James. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These gave themselves all with one accord to continual prayer, with several women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And in those days Peter, standing up in the midst of the brethren, said, (the crowd of names who were together was about a hundred and twenty,) <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Brethren, it was necessary that the scripture should have been fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before, by the mouth of David, concerning Judas, who became guide to those who took Jesus; <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for he was numbered amongst us, and had received a part in this service. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (This man then indeed got a field with the reward of iniquity, and, having fallen down headlong, burst in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And it was known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that that field was called in their own dialect Aceldama; that is, field of blood.) <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his homestead become desolate, and let there be no dweller in it; and, Let another take his overseership. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is necessary therefore, that of the men who have assembled with us all the time in which the Lord Jesus came in and went out among us, <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> beginning from the baptism of John until the day in which he was taken up from us, one of these should be a witness with us of his resurrection. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they appointed two, Joseph, who was called Barsabas, who had been surnamed Justus, and Matthias. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they prayed, and said, Thou Lord, knower of the hearts of all, shew which one of these two thou hast chosen, <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> to receive the lot of this service and apostleship, from which Judas transgressing fell to go to his own place. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they gave lots on them, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.</p>

</body>
</html>