<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But when it had been determined that we should sail to Italy, they delivered up Paul and certain other prisoners to a centurion, by name Julius, of Augustus' company. <a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And going on board a ship of Adramyttium about to navigate by the places along Asia, we set sail, Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us. <a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the next day we arrived at Sidon. And Julius treated Paul kindly and suffered him to go to his friends and refresh himself. <a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And setting sail thence we sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were contrary. <a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And having sailed over the waters of Cilicia and Pamphylia we came to Myra in Lycia: <a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and there the centurion having found a ship of Alexandria sailing to Italy, he made us go on board her. <a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And sailing slowly for many days, and having with difficulty got abreast of Cnidus, the wind not suffering us, we sailed under the lee of Crete abreast of Salmone; <a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and coasting it with difficulty we came to a certain place called Fair Havens, near to which was the city of Lasaea. <a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And much time having now been spent, and navigation being already dangerous, because the fast also was already past, Paul counselled them, <a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> saying, Men, I perceive that the navigation will be with disaster and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives. <a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the centurion believed rather the helmsman and the shipowner than what was said by Paul.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the harbour being ill adapted to winter in, the most counselled to set sail thence, if perhaps they might reach Phoenice to winter in, a port of Crete looking north-east and south-east. <a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the south wind blowing gently, supposing that they had gained their object, having weighed anchor they sailed close in shore along Crete. <a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But not long after there came down it a hurricane called Euroclydon. <a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the ship being caught and driven, and not able to bring her head to the wind, letting her go we were driven before it. <a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But running under the lee of a certain island called Clauda, we were with difficulty able to make ourselves masters of the boat; <a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> which having hoisted up, they used helps, frapping the ship; and fearing lest they should run into Syrtis and run aground, and having lowered the gear they were so driven. <a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the storm being extremely violent on us, on the next day they threw cargo overboard, <a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and on the third day with their own hands they cast away the ship furniture. <a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And neither sun nor stars appearing for many days, and no small storm lying on us, in the end all hope of our being saved was taken away.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And when they had been a long while without taking food, Paul then standing up in the midst of them said, Ye ought, O men, to have hearkened to me, and not have made sail from Crete and have gained this disaster and loss. <a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And now I exhort you to be of good courage, for there shall be no loss at all of life of any of you, only of the ship. <a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For an angel of the God, whose I am and whom I serve, stood by me this night, <a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must stand before Caesar; and behold, God has granted to thee all those that sail with thee. <a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Wherefore be of good courage, men, for I believe God that thus it shall be, as it has been said to me. <a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But we must be cast ashore on a certain island. <a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And when the fourteenth night was come, we being driven about in Adria, towards the middle of the night the sailors supposed that some land neared them, <a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and having sounded found twenty fathoms, and having gone a little farther and having again sounded they found fifteen fathoms; <a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and fearing lest we should be cast on rocky places, casting four anchors out of the stern, they wished that day were come. <a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But the sailors wishing to flee out of the ship, and having let down the boat into the sea under pretext of being about to carry out anchors from the prow, <a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, Unless these abide in the ship ye cannot be saved. <a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat and let her fall. <a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And while it was drawing on to daylight, Paul exhorted them all to partake of food, saying, Ye have passed the fourteenth day watching in expectation without taking food. <a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Wherefore I exhort you to partake of food, for this has to do with your safety; for not a hair from the head of any one of you shall perish. <a id="c27_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And, having said these things and taken a loaf, he gave thanks to God before all, and having broken it began to eat. <a id="c27_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And all taking courage, themselves also took food. <a id="c27_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And we were in the ship, all the souls, two hundred and seventy-six. <a id="c27_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And having satisfied themselves with food, they lightened the ship, casting out the wheat into the sea. <a id="c27_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when it was day they did not recognise the land; but they perceived a certain bay having a strand, on which they were minded, if they should be able, to run the ship ashore; <a id="c27_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and, having cast off the anchors, they left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the lashings of the rudders, and hoisting the foresail to the wind, they made for the strand. <a id="c27_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And falling into a place where two seas met they ran the ship aground, and the prow having stuck itself fast remained unmoved, but the stern was broken by the force of the waves. <a id="c27_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And the counsel of the soldiers was that they should kill the prisoners, lest any one should swim off and escape. <a id="c27_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> But the centurion, desirous of saving Paul, hindered them of their purpose, and commanded those who were able to swim, casting themselves first into the sea, to get out on land; <a id="c27_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> and the rest, some on boards, some on some of the things that came from the ship; and thus it came to pass that all got safe to land.</p>

</body>
</html>