<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, which is the ninth hour; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and a certain man who was lame from his mother's womb was being carried, whom they placed every day at the gate of the temple called Beautiful, to ask alms of those who were going into the temple; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> who, seeing Peter and John about to enter into the temple, asked to receive alms. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Peter, looking stedfastly upon him with John, said, Look on us. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he gave heed to them, expecting to receive something from them. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But Peter said, Silver and gold I have not; but what I have, this give I to thee: In the name of Jesus Christ the Nazaraean rise up and walk. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And having taken hold of him by the right hand he raised him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones were made strong. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And leaping up he stood and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And all the people saw him walking and praising God; <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and they recognised him, that it was he who sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple; and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And as he held Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the portico which is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Peter, seeing it, answered the people, Men of Israel, why are ye astonished at this? or why do ye gaze on us as if we had by our own power or piety made him to walk? <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The God of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus, whom ye delivered up, and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he had judged that he should be let go. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But ye denied the holy and righteous one, and asked that a man that was a murderer should be granted to you; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> but the originator of life ye slew, whom God raised from among the dead, whereof we are witnesses. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And, by faith in his name, his name has made this man strong whom ye behold and know; and the faith which is by him has given him this complete soundness in the presence of you all. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And now, brethren, I know that ye did it in ignorance, as also your rulers; <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> but God has thus fulfilled what he had announced beforehand by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ should suffer. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Repent therefore and be converted, for the blotting out of your sins, so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and he may send Jesus Christ, who was foreordained for you, <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> whom heaven indeed must receive till the times of the restoring of all things, of which God has spoken by the mouth of his holy prophets since time began. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Moses indeed said, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up to you out of your brethren like me: him shall ye hear in everything whatsoever he shall say to you. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And it shall be that whatsoever soul shall not hear that prophet shall be destroyed from among the people. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And indeed all the prophets from Samuel and those in succession after him, as many as have spoken, have announced also these days. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Ye are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant which God appointed to our fathers, saying to Abraham, And in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> To you first God, having raised up his servant, has sent him, blessing you in turning each one of you from your wickedness.</p>

</body>
</html>