<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Saul was consenting to his being killed. And on that day there arose a great persecution against the assembly which was in Jerusalem, and all were scattered into the countries of Judaea and Samaria except the apostles. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And pious men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But Saul ravaged the assembly, entering into the houses one after another, and dragging off both men and women delivered them up to prison.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Those then that had been scattered went through the countries announcing the glad tidings of the word. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Philip, going down to a city of Samaria, preached the Christ to them; <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the crowds with one accord gave heed to the things spoken by Philip, when they heard him and saw the signs which he wrought. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For from many who had unclean spirits they went out, crying with a loud voice; and many that were paralysed and lame were healed. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And there was great joy in that city. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But a certain man, by name Simon, had been before in the city, using magic arts, and astonishing the nation of Samaria, saying that himself was some great one. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> To whom they had all given heed, from small to great, saying, This is the power of God which is called great. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they gave heed to him, because that for a long time he had astonished them by his magic arts. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But when they believed Philip announcing the glad tidings concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptised, both men and women. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Simon also himself believed; and, having been baptised, continued constantly with Philip; and, beholding the signs and great works of power which took place, was astonished.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the apostles who were in Jerusalem, having heard that Samaria had received the word of God, sent to them Peter and John; <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> who, having come down, prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit; <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for he was not yet fallen upon any of them, only they were baptised to the name of the Lord Jesus. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then they laid their hands upon them, and they received the Holy Spirit. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But Simon, having seen that by the laying on of the hands of the apostles the Holy Spirit was given, offered them money, <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> saying, Give to me also this power, in order that on whomsoever I may lay hands he may receive the Holy Spirit. <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Peter said to him, Thy money go with thee to destruction, because thou hast thought that the gift of God can be obtained by money. <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter, for thy heart is not upright before God. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and supplicate the Lord, if indeed the thought of thy heart may be forgiven thee; <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for I see thee to be in the gall of bitterness, and bond of unrighteousness. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Simon answering said, Supplicate ye for me to the Lord, so that nothing may come upon me of the things of which ye have spoken. <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> They therefore, having testified and spoken the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and announced the glad tidings to many villages of the Samaritans.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But the angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Rise up and go southward on the way which goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza: the same is desert. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And he rose up and went. And lo, an Ethiopian, a eunuch, a man in power under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who was over all her treasure, who had come to worship at Jerusalem, <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> was returning and sitting in his chariot: and he was reading the prophet Esaias. <a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the Spirit said to Philip, Approach and join this chariot. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Philip, running up, heard him reading the prophet Esaias, and said, Dost thou then know what thou art reading of? <a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he said, How should I then be able unless some one guide me? And he begged Philip to come up and sit with him. <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the passage of the scripture which he read was this: He was led as a sheep to slaughter, and as a lamb is dumb in presence of him that shears him, thus he opens not his mouth. <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> In his humiliation his judgment has been taken away, and who shall declare his generation? for his life is taken from the earth. <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the eunuch answering Philip said, I pray thee, concerning whom does the prophet say this? of himself or of some other? <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Philip, opening his mouth and beginning from that scripture, announced the glad tidings of Jesus to him. <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And as they went along the way, they came upon a certain water, and the eunuch says, Behold water; what hinders my being baptised?<a epub:type="noteref" href="#footnote1">*</a>  <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he commanded the chariot to stop. And they went down both to the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptised him. <a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But when they came up out of the water the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip, and the eunuch saw him no longer, for he went on his way rejoicing. <a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And Philip was found at Azotus, and passing through he announced the glad tidings to all the cities till he came to Caesarea.</p> 

<div class="groupFootnote">
  <aside epub:type="footnote"><div epub:type="footnote" id="footnote1"><p>Ver. 37 in the Authorized Version is recognized as not genuine.</p></div></aside>
</div>

</body>
</html>