<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Acts 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Acts 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Saul, still breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, came to the high priest <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and asked of him letters to Damascus, to the synagogues, so that if he found any who were of the way, both men and women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But as he was journeying, it came to pass that he drew near to Damascus; and suddenly there shone round about him a light out of heaven, <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and falling on the earth he heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why dost thou persecute me? <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest. <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But rise up and enter into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do. <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the men who were travelling with him stood speechless, hearing the voice but beholding no one. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Saul rose up from the earth, and his eyes being opened he saw no one. But leading him by the hand they brought him into Damascus. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he was three days without seeing, and neither ate nor drank.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And there was a certain disciple in Damascus by name Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, here am I, Lord. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord said to him, Rise up and go into the street which is called Straight, and seek in the house of Judas one by name Saul, he is of Tarsus: for, behold, he is praying, <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and has seen in a vision a man by name Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him, so that he should see. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many concerning this man how much evil he has done to thy saints at Jerusalem; <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call upon thy name. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the Lord said to him, Go, for this man is an elect vessel to me, to bear my name before both nations and kings and the sons of Israel: <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for I will shew to him how much he must suffer for my name. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Ananias went and entered into the house; and laying his hands upon him he said, Saul, brother, the Lord has sent me, Jesus that appeared to thee in the way in which thou camest, that thou mightest see, and be filled with theHoly Spirit. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And straightway there fell from his eyes as it were scales, and he saw, and rising up was baptised; <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and, having received food, got strength. And he was with the disciples who were in Damascus certain days. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And straightway in the synagogues he preached Jesus that he is the Son of God. <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And all who heard were astonished and said, Is not this he who destroyed in Jerusalem those who called on this name, and here was come for this purpose, that he might bring them bound to the chief priests? <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Saul increased the more in power, and confounded the Jews who dwelt in Damascus, proving that this is the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now when many days were fulfilled, the Jews consulted together to kill him. <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But their plot became known to Saul. And they watched also the gates both day and night, that they might kill him; <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but the disciples took him by night and let him down through the wall, lowering him in a basket. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And having arrived at Jerusalem he essayed to join himself to the disciples, and all were afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles, and related to them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how in Damascus he had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus. <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he was with them coming in and going out at Jerusalem, <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and speaking boldly in the name of the Lord. And he spoke and discussed with the Hellenists; but they sought to kill him. <a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the brethren knowing it, brought him down to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus. <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The assemblies then throughout the whole of Judaea and Galilee and Samaria had peace, being edified and walking in the fear of the Lord, and were increased through the comfort of the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now it came to pass that Peter, passing through all quarters, descended also to the saints who inhabited Lydda. <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he found there a certain man, Aeneas by name, who had been lying for eight years upon a couch, who was paralysed. <a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And Peter said to him, Aeneas, Jesus, the Christ, heals thee: rise up, and make thy couch for thyself. And straightway he rose up. <a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And all who inhabited Lydda and the Saron saw him, who turned to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And in Joppa there was a certain female disciple, by name Tabitha, which being interpreted means Dorcas. She was full of good works and alms-deeds which she did. <a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And it came to pass in those days that she grew sick and died; and, having washed her, they put her in the upper room. <a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But Lydda being near to Joppa, the disciples having heard that Peter was there, sent two men to him, beseeching him, Thou must not delay coming to us. <a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Peter rising up went with them, whom, when arrived, they brought up into the upper chamber; and all the widows stood by him weeping and shewing him the body-coats and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them. <a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But Peter, putting them all out, and kneeling down, prayed. And, turning to the body, he said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes, and, seeing Peter, sat up. <a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And having given her his hand, he raised her up, and having called the saints and the widows, presented her living. <a id="c9_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And it became known throughout the whole of Joppa, and many believed on the Lord. <a id="c9_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And it came to pass that he remained many days in Joppa with a certain Simon, a tanner.</p>

</body>
</html>