<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> What then is the superiority of the Jew? or what the profit of circumcision? <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Much every way: and first, indeed, that to them were entrusted the oracles of God. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For what? if some have not believed, shall their unbelief make the faith of God of none effect? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Far be the thought: but let God be true, and every man false; according as it is written, So that thou shouldest be justified in thy words, and shouldest overcome when thou art in judgment. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if our unrighteousness commend God's righteousness, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous who inflicts wrath? I speak according to man. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Far be the thought: since how shall God judge the world? <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For if the truth of God, in my lie, has more abounded to his glory, why yet am I also judged as a sinner? <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and not, according as we are injuriously charged, and according as some affirm that we say, Let us practise evil things, that good ones may come? whose judgment is just. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What then? are we better? No, in no wise: for we have before charged both Jews and Greeks with being all under sin: <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> according as it is written, There is not a righteous man, not even one; <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> there is not the man that understands, there is not one that seeks after God. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All have gone out of the way, they have together become unprofitable; there is not one that practises goodness, there is not so much as one: <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> their throat is an open sepulchre; with their tongues they have used deceit; asps' poison is under their lips: <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> swift their feet to shed blood; <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> ruin and misery are in their ways, <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and way of peace they have not known: <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> there is no fear of God before their eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now we know that whatever the things the law says, it speaks to those under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world be under judgment to God. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Wherefore by works of law no flesh shall be justified before him; for by law is knowledge of sin. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But now without law righteousness of God is manifested, borne witness to by the law and the prophets; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> righteousness of God by faith of Jesus Christ towards all, and upon all those who believe: for there is no difference; <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God; <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> being justified freely by his grace through the redemption which is in Christ Jesus; <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> whom God has set forth a mercy-seat, through faith in his blood, for the shewing forth of his righteousness, in respect of the passing by the sins that had taken place before, through the forbearance of God; <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for the shewing forth of his righteousness in the present time, so that he should be just, and justify him that is of the faith of Jesus. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Where then is boasting? It has been excluded. By what law? of works? Nay, but by law of faith; <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> for we reckon that a man is justified by faith, without works of law. <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Is God the God of Jews only? is he not of the nations also? Yea, of nations also: <a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> since indeed it is one God who shall justify the circumcision on the principle of faith, and uncircumcision by faith. <a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Do we then make void law by faith? Far be the thought: no, but we establish law.</p>

</body>
</html>