<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let every soul be subject to the authorities that are above him. For there is no authority except from God; and those that exist are set up by God. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> So that he that sets himself in opposition to the authority resists the ordinance of God; and they who thus resist shall bring sentence of guilt on themselves. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For rulers are not a terror to a good work, but to an evil one. Dost thou desire then not to be afraid of the authority? practise what is good, and thou shalt have praise from it; <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> for it is God's minister to thee for good. But if thou practisest evil, fear; for it bears not the sword in vain; for it is God's minister, an avenger for wrath to him that does evil. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wherefore it is necessary to be subject, not only on account of wrath, but also on account of conscience. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For on this account ye pay tribute also; for they are God's officers, attending continually on this very thing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Render to all their dues: to whom tribute is due, tribute; to whom custom, custom; to whom fear, fear; to whom honour, honour. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Owe no one anything, unless to love one another: for he that loves another has fulfilled the law. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not lust; and if there be any other commandment, it is summed up in this word, namely, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Love works no ill to its neighbour; love therefore is the whole law.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This also, knowing the time, that it is already time that we should be aroused out of sleep; for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The night is far spent, and the day is near; let us cast away therefore the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> As in the day, let us walk becomingly; not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and lasciviousness, not in strife and emulation. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and do not take forethought for the flesh to fulfil its lusts.</p>

</body>
</html>