<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, every one who judgest, for in that in which thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest doest the same things. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But we know that the judgment of God is according to truth upon those who do such things. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And thinkest thou this, O man, who judgest those that do such things, and practisest them thyself, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> or despisest thou the riches of his goodness, and forbearance, and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads thee to repentance? <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but, according to thy hardness and impenitent heart, treasurest up to thyself wrath, in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God, <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who shall render to each according to his works: <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> to them who, in patient continuance of good works, seek for glory and honour and incorruptibility, life eternal. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But to those that are contentious, and are disobedient to the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there shall be wrath and indignation, <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> tribulation and distress, on every soul of man that works evil, both of Jew first, and of Greek; <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but glory and honour and peace to every one that works good, both to Jew first and to Greek: <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for there is no acceptance of persons with God. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For as many as have sinned without law shall perish also without law; and as many as have sinned under law shall be judged by law, <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> (for not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For when those of the nations, which have no law, practise by nature the things of the law, these, having no law, are a law to themselves; <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> who shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts accusing or else excusing themselves between themselves;) <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> in the day when God shall judge the secrets of men, according to my glad tidings, by Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if thou art named a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest thy boast in God, <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and knowest the will, and discerningly approvest the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law; <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and hast confidence that thou thyself art a leader of the blind, a light of those who are in darkness, <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, having the form of knowledge and of truth in the law: <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> thou then that teachest another, dost thou not teach thyself? thou that preachest not to steal, dost thou steal? <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> thou that sayest man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege? <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> thou who boastest in law, dost thou by transgression of the law dishonour God? <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For the name of God is blasphemed on your account among the nations, according as it is written. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For circumcision indeed profits if thou keep the law; but if thou be a law-transgressor, thy circumcision is become uncircumcision. <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If therefore the uncircumcision keep the requirements of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be reckoned for circumcision, <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and uncircumcision by nature, fulfilling the law, judge thee, who, with letter and circumcision, art a law-transgressor? <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, neither that circumcision which is outward in flesh; <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but he is a Jew who is so inwardly; and circumcision, of the heart, in spirit, not in letter; whose praise is not of men, but of God.</p>

</body>
</html>