<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But we ought, we that are strong, to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves. <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Let each one of us please his neighbour with a view to what is good, to edification. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the Christ also did not please himself; but according as it is written, The reproaches of them that reproach thee have fallen upon me. <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For as many things as have been written before have been written for our instruction, that through endurance and through encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now the God of endurance and of encouragement give to you to be like-minded one toward another, according to Christ Jesus; <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> that ye may with one accord, with one mouth, glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore receive ye one another, according as the Christ also has received you to the glory of God. <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For I say that Jesus Christ became a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises of the fathers; <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and that the nations should glorify God for mercy; according as it is written, For this cause I will confess to thee among the nations, and will sing to thy name. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And again he says, Rejoice, nations, with his people. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And again, Praise the Lord, all ye nations, and let all the peoples laud him. <a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And again, Esaias says, There shall be the root of Jesse, and one that arises, to rule over the nations: in him shall the nations hope.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that ye should abound in hope by the power of the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But I am persuaded, my brethren, I myself also, concerning you, that yourselves also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But I have written to you the more boldly, brethren, in part, as putting you in mind, because of the grace given to me by God, <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for me to be minister of Christ Jesus to the nations, carrying on as a sacrificial service the message of glad tidings of God, in order that the offering up of the nations might be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I have therefore whereof to boast in Christ Jesus in the things which pertain to God. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I will not dare to speak anything of the things which Christ has not wrought by me, for the obedience of the nations, by word and deed, <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> in the power of signs and wonders, in the power of the Spirit of God; so that I, from Jerusalem, and in a circuit round to Illyricum, have fully preached the glad tidings of the Christ; <a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and so aiming to announce the glad tidings, not where Christ has been named, that I might not build upon another's foundation; <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but according as it is written, To whom there was nothing told concerning him, they shall see; and they that have not heard shall understand.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wherefore also I have been often hindered from coming to you. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But now, having no longer place in these regions, and having great desire to come to you these many years, <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> whenever I should go to Spain; (for I hope to see you as I go through, and by you to be set forward thither, if first I shall have been in part filled with your company;) <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but now I go to Jerusalem, ministering to the saints; <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for Macedonia and Achaia have been well pleased to make a certain contribution for the poor of the saints who are in Jerusalem. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> They have been well pleased indeed, and they are their debtors; for if the nations have participated in their spiritual things, they ought also in fleshly to minister to them. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Having finished this therefore, and having sealed to them this fruit, I will set off by you into Spain. <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But I know that, coming to you, I shall come in the fulness of the blessing of Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But I beseech you, brethren, by our Lord Jesus Christ, and by the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me in prayers for me to God; <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> that I may be saved from those that do not believe in Judaea; and that my ministry which I have for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints; <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> in order that I may come to you in joy by God's will, and that I may be refreshed with you. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the God of peace be with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>