<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> There is then now no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set me free from the law of sin and of death. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God, having sent his own Son, in likeness of flesh of sin, and for sin, has condemned sin in the flesh, <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> in order that the righteous requirement of the law should be fulfilled in us, who do not walk according to flesh but according to Spirit. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For they that are according to flesh mind the things of the flesh; and they that are according to Spirit, the things of the Spirit. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For the mind of the flesh is death; but the mind of the Spirit life and peace. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Because the mind of the flesh is enmity against God: for it is not subject to the law of God; for neither indeed can it be: <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and they that are in flesh cannot please God. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But ye are not in flesh but in Spirit, if indeed God's Spirit dwell in you; but if any one has not the Spirit of Christ he is not of him:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but if Christ be in you, the body is dead on account of sin, but the Spirit life on account of righteousness. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But if the Spirit of him that has raised up Jesus from among the dead dwell in you, he that has raised up Christ from among the dead shall quicken your mortal bodies also on account of his Spirit which dwells in you. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So then, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to flesh; <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for if ye live according to flesh, ye are about to die; but if, by the Spirit, ye put to death the deeds of the body, ye shall live: <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For ye have not received a spirit of bondage again for fear, but ye have received a spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father. <a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The Spirit itself bears witness with our spirit, that we are children of God.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And if children, heirs also: heirs of God, and Christ's joint heirs; if indeed we suffer with him, that we may also be glorified with him. <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the coming glory to be revealed to us. <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the anxious looking out of the creature expects the revelation of the sons of God: <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for the creature has been made subject to vanity, not of its will, but by reason of him who has subjected the same, in hope <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> that the creature itself also shall be set free from the bondage of corruption into the liberty of the glory of the children of God. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For we know that the whole creation groans together and travails in pain together until now. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And not only that, but even we ourselves, who have the first-fruits of the Spirit, we also ourselves groan in ourselves, awaiting adoption, that is the redemption of our body. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For we have been saved in hope; but hope seen is not hope; for what any one sees, why does he also hope? <a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But if what we see not we hope, we expect in patience.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And in like manner the Spirit joins also its help to our weakness; for we do not know what we should pray for as is fitting, but the Spirit itself makes intercession with groanings which cannot be uttered. <a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But he who searches the hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because he intercedes for saints according to God. <a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But we do know that all things work together for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to purpose.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Because whom he has foreknown, he has also predestinated to be conformed to the image of his Son, so that he should be the firstborn among many brethren. <a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But whom he has predestinated, these also he has called; and whom he has called, these also he has justified; but whom he has justified, these also he has glorified.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who against us? <a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> He who, yea, has not spared his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not also with him grant us all things? <a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Who shall bring an accusation against God's elect? It is God who justifies: <a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> who is he that condemns? It is Christ who has died, but rather has been also raised up; who is also at the right hand of God; who also intercedes for us. <a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? tribulation or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? <a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> According as it is written, For thy sake we are put to death all the day long; we have been reckoned as sheep for slaughter. <a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But in all these things we more than conquer through him that has loved us. <a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, <a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>