<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But I commend to you Phoebe, our sister, who is minister of the assembly which is in Cenchrea; <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that ye may receive her in the Lord worthily of saints, and that ye may assist her in whatever matter she has need of you; for she also has been a helper of many, and of myself. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Salute Prisca and Aquila, my fellow-workmen in Christ Jesus, <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> (who for my life staked their own neck; to whom not I only am thankful, but also all the assemblies of the nations,) <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the assembly at their house. Salute Epaenetus, my beloved, who is the first-fruits of Asia for Christ. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Salute Maria, who laboured much for you. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Salute Andronicus and Junias, my kinsmen and fellow-captives, who are of note among the apostles; who were also in Christ before me. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Salute Amplias, my beloved in the Lord. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Salute Urbanus, our fellow-workman in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Salute Apelles, approved in Christ. Salute those who belong to Aristobulus. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Salute Herodion, my kinsman. Salute those who belong to Narcissus, who are in the Lord. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Salute Tryphaena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute Persis, the beloved, who has laboured much in the Lord. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Salute Rufus, chosen in the Lord; and his mother and mine. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brethren with them. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints with them. <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Salute one another with a holy kiss. All the assemblies of Christ salute you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But I beseech you, brethren, to consider those who create divisions and occasions of falling, contrary to the doctrine which ye have learnt, and turn away from them. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For such serve not our Lord Christ, but their own belly, and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the unsuspecting. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For your obedience has reached to all. I rejoice therefore as it regards you; but I wish you to be wise as to that which is good, and simple as to evil. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Timotheus, my fellow-workman, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, salute you. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I Tertius, who have written this epistle, salute you in the Lord. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Gaius, my host and of the whole assembly, salutes you. Erastus, the steward of the city, salutes you, and the brother Quartus. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now to him that is able to establish you, according to my glad tidings and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, as to which silence has been kept in the times of the ages, <a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> but which has now been made manifest, and by prophetic scriptures, according to commandment of the eternal God, made known for obedience of faith to all the nations-- <a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> the only wise God, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory for ever. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>