<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, bondman of Jesus Christ, a called apostle, separated to God's glad tidings, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (which he had before promised by his prophets in holy writings,) <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> concerning his Son (come of David's seed according to flesh, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> marked out Son of God in power, according to the Spirit of holiness, by resurrection of the dead) Jesus Christ our Lord; <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> by whom we have received grace and apostleship in behalf of his name, for obedience of faith among all the nations, <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> among whom are ye also the called of Jesus Christ: <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> to all that are in Rome, beloved of God, called saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is proclaimed in the whole world. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For God is my witness, whom I serve in my spirit in the glad tidings of his Son, how unceasingly I make mention of you, <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> always beseeching at my prayers, if any way now at least I may be prospered by the will of God to come to you. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For I greatly desire to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to establish you; <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> that is, to have mutual comfort among you, each by the faith which is in the other, both yours and mine. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But I do not wish you to be ignorant, brethren, that I often proposed to come to you, (and have been hindered until the present time,) that I might have some fruit among you too, even as among the other nations also. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I am a debtor both to Greeks and barbarians, both to wise and unintelligent: <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> so, as far as depends on me, am I ready to announce the glad tidings to you also who are in Rome.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I am not ashamed of the glad tidings; for it is God's power to salvation, to every one that believes, both to Jew first and to Greek: <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for righteousness of God is revealed therein, on the principle of faith, to faith: according as it is written, But the just shall live by faith. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For there is revealed wrath of God from heaven upon all impiety, and unrighteousness of men holding the truth in unrighteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Because what is known of God is manifest among them, for God has manifested it to them, <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> --for from the world's creation the invisible things of him are perceived, being apprehended by the mind through the things that are made, both his eternal power and divinity, --so as to render them inexcusable. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Because, knowing God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful; but fell into folly in their thoughts, and their heart without understanding was darkened: <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into the likeness of an image of corruptible man and of birds and quadrupeds and reptiles. <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Wherefore God gave them up also in the lusts of their hearts to uncleanness, to dishonour their bodies between themselves: <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> who changed the truth of God into falsehood, and honoured and served the creature more than him who had created it, who is blessed for ever. Amen. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For this reason God gave them up to vile lusts; for both their females changed the natural use into that contrary to nature; <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and in like manner the males also, leaving the natural use of the female, were inflamed in their lust towards one another; males with males working shame, and receiving in themselves the recompense of their error which was fit. <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And according as they did not think good to have God in their knowledge, God gave them up to a reprobate mind to practise unseemly things; <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> being filled with all unrighteousness, wickedness, covetousness, malice; full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, evil dispositions; whisperers, <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> back-biters, hateful to God, insolent, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents, <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> void of understanding, faithless, without natural affection, unmerciful; <a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> who knowing the righteous judgment of God, that they who do such things are worthy of death, not only practise them, but have fellow delight in those who do them.</p>

</body>
</html>