<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Are ye ignorant, brethren, (for I speak to those knowing law,) that law rules over a man as long as he lives? <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For the married woman is bound by law to her husband so long as he is alive; but if the husband should die, she is clear from the law of the husband: <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> so then, the husband being alive, she shall be called an adulteress if she be to another man; but if the husband should die, she is free from the law, so as not to be an adulteress, though she be to another man. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> So that, my brethren, ye also have been made dead to the law by the body of the Christ, to be to another, who has been raised up from among the dead, in order that we might bear fruit to God. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For when we were in the flesh the passions of sins, which were by the law, wrought in our members to bring forth fruit to death; <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but now we are clear from the law, having died in that in which we were held, so that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in oldness of letter.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What shall we say then? is the law sin? Far be the thought. But I had not known sin, unless by law: for I had not had conscience also of lust unless the law had said, Thou shalt not lust; <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but sin, getting a point of attack by the commandment, wrought in me every lust; for without law sin was dead. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But I was alive without law once; but the commandment having come, sin revived, but I died. <a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the commandment, which was for life, was found, as to me, itself to be unto death: <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for sin, getting a point of attack by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So that the law indeed is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Did then that which is good become death to me? Far be the thought. But sin, that it might appear sin, working death to me by that which is good; in order that sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we know that the law is spiritual: but I am fleshly, sold under sin. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For that which I do, I do not own: for not what I will, this I do; but what I hate, this I practise. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But if what I do not will, this I practise, I consent to the law that it is right. <a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now then it is no longer I that do it, but the sin that dwells in me. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For I know that in me, that is, in my flesh, good does not dwell: for to will is there with me, but to do right I find not. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For I do not practise the good that I will; but the evil I do not will, that I do. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But if what I do not will, this I practise, it is no longer I that do it, but the sin that dwells in me. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I find then the law upon me who will to practise what is right, that with me evil is there. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For I delight in the law of God according to the inward man: <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> but I see another law in my members, warring in opposition to the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which exists in my members. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me out of this body of death? <a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> I thank God, through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself with the mind serve God's law; but with the flesh sin's law.</p>

</body>
</html>