<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> What shall we say then that Abraham our father according to flesh has found? <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if Abraham has been justified on the principle of works, he has whereof to boast: but not before God; <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for what does the scripture say? And Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now to him that works the reward is not reckoned as of grace, but of debt: <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> but to him who does not work, but believes on him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is reckoned as righteousness. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Even as David also declares the blessedness of the man to whom God reckons righteousness without works: <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Blessed they whose lawlessnesses have been forgiven, and whose sins have been covered: <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> blessed the man to whom the Lord shall not at all reckon sin.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Does this blessedness then rest on the circumcision, or also on the uncircumcision? For we say that faith has been reckoned to Abraham as righteousness. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> How then has it been reckoned? when he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he received the sign of circumcision as seal of the righteousness of faith which he had being in uncircumcision, that he might be the father of all them that believe being in uncircumcision, that righteousness might be reckoned to them also; <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and father of circumcision, not only to those who are of the circumcision, but to those also who walk in the steps of the faith, during uncircumcision, of our father Abraham. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For it was not by law that the promise was to Abraham, or to his seed, that he should be heir of the world, but by righteousness of faith. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For if they which are of law be heirs, faith is made vain, and the promise made of no effect. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For law works wrath; but where no law is neither is there transgression. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore it is on the principle of faith, that it might be according to grace, in order to the promise being sure to all the seed, not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of Abraham's faith, who is father of us all,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> (according as it is written, I have made thee father of many nations,) before the God whom he believed, who quickens the dead, and calls the things which be not as being; <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> who against hope believed in hope to his becoming father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, So shall thy seed be: <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and not being weak in faith, he considered not his own body already become dead, being about a hundred years old, and the deadening of Sarah's womb, <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and hesitated not at the promise of God through unbelief; but found strength in faith, giving glory to God; <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and being fully persuaded that what he has promised he is able also to do; <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> wherefore also it was reckoned to him as righteousness.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now it was not written on his account alone that it was reckoned to him, <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but on ours also, to whom, believing on him who has raised from among the dead Jesus our Lord, <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> who has been delivered for our offences and has been raised for our justification, it will be reckoned.</p>

</body>
</html>