<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the compassions of God, to present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to God, which is your intelligent service. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is the good and acceptable and perfect will of God. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I say, through the grace which has been given to me, to every one that is among you, not to have high thoughts above what he should think; but to think so as to be wise, as God has dealt to each a measure of faith. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For, as in one body we have many members, but all the members have not the same office; <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> thus we, being many, are one body in Christ, and each one members one of the other. <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But having different gifts, according to the grace which has been given to us, whether it be prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith; <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> or service, let us occupy ourselves in service; or he that teaches, in teaching; <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> or he that exhorts, in exhortation; he that gives, in simplicity; he that leads, with diligence; he that shews mercy, with cheerfulness. <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let love be unfeigned; abhorring evil; cleaving to good: <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> as to brotherly love, kindly affectioned towards one another: as to honour, each taking the lead in paying it to the other: <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> as to diligent zealousness, not slothful; in spirit fervent; serving the Lord. <a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> As regards hope, rejoicing: as regards tribulation, enduring: as regards prayer, persevering: <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> distributing to the necessities of the saints; given to hospitality. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Bless them that persecute you; bless, and curse not. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Rejoice with those that rejoice, weep with those that weep. <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Have the same respect one for another, not minding high things, but going along with the lowly: be not wise in your own eyes: <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> recompensing to no one evil for evil: providing things honest before all men: <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> if possible, as far as depends on you, living in peace with all men; <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> not avenging yourselves, beloved, but give place to wrath; for it is written, Vengeance belongs to me, I will recompense, saith the Lord. <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If therefore thine enemy should hunger, feed him; if he should thirst, give him drink; for, so doing, thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head. <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Be not overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.</p>

</body>
</html>