<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I say then, Has God cast away his people? Far be the thought. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> God has not cast away his people whom he foreknew. Know ye not what the scripture says in the history of Elias, how he pleads with God against Israel? <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Lord, they have killed thy prophets, they have dug down thine altars; and I have been left alone, and they seek my life. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But what says the divine answer to him? I have left to myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed knee to Baal. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus, then, in the present time also there has been a remnant according to election of grace. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But if by grace, no longer of works: since otherwise grace is no more grace. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> What is it then? What Israel seeks for, that he has not obtained; but the election has obtained, and the rest have been blinded, <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> according as it is written, God has given to them a spirit of slumber, eyes not to see, and ears not to hear, unto this day. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David says, Let their table be for a snare, and for a gin, and for a fall-trap, and for a recompense to them: <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> let their eyes be darkened not to see, and bow down their back alway. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I say then, Have they stumbled in order that they might fall? Far be the thought: but by their fall there is salvation to the nations to provoke them to jealousy. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if their fall be the world's wealth, and their loss the wealth of the nations, how much rather their fulness? <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I speak to you, the nations, inasmuch as I am apostle of nations, I glorify my ministry; <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> if by any means I shall provoke to jealousy them which are my flesh, and shall save some from among them. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For if their casting away be the world's reconciliation, what their reception but life from among the dead? <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now if the first-fruit be holy, the lump also; and if the root be holy, the branches also. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now if some of the branches have been broken out, and thou, being a wild olive tree, hast been grafted in amongst them, and hast become a fellow-partaker of the root and of the fatness of the olive tree, <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> boast not against the branches; but if thou boast, it is not thou bearest the root, but the root thee. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou wilt say then, The branches have been broken out in order that I might be grafted in. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Right: they have been broken out through unbelief, and thou standest through faith. Be not high-minded, but fear: <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> if God indeed has not spared the natural branches; lest it might be he spare not thee either. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold then the goodness and severity of God: upon them who have fallen, severity; upon thee goodness of God, if thou shalt abide in goodness, since otherwisethou also wilt be cut away. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they too, if they abide not in unbelief, shall be grafted in; for God is able again to graft them in. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For if thou hast been cut out of the olive tree wild by nature, and, contrary to nature, hast been grafted into the good olive tree, how much rather shall they, who are according to nature be grafted into their own olive tree? <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For I do not wish you to be ignorant, brethren, of this mystery, that ye may not be wise in your own conceits, that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until the fulness of the nations be come in; <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and so all Israel shall be saved. According as it is written, The deliverer shall come out of Zion; he shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And this is the covenant from me to them, when I shall have taken away their sins. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> As regards the glad tidings, they are enemies on your account; but as regards election, beloved on account of the fathers. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For the gifts and the calling of God are not subject to repentance. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For as indeed ye also once have not believed in God, but now have been objects of mercy through the unbelief of these; <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> so these also have now not believed in your mercy, in order that they also may be objects of mercy. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For God hath shut up together all in unbelief, in order that he might shew mercy to all.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> O depth of riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable his judgments, and untraceable his ways! <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counsellor? <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> or who has first given to him, and it shall be rendered to him?</p>

</body>
</html>