<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now him that is weak in the faith receive, not to the determining of questions of reasoning. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> One man is assured that he may eat all things; but the weak eats herbs. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let not him that eats make little of him that eats not; and let not him that eats not judge him that eats: for God has received him. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who art thou that judgest the servant of another? to his own master he stands or falls. And he shall be made to stand; for the Lord is able to make him stand. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> One man esteems day more than day; another esteems every day alike. Let each be fully persuaded in his own mind. <a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He that regards the day, regards it to the Lord. And he that eats, eats to the Lord, for he gives God thanks; and he that does not eat, it is to the Lord he does not eat, and gives God thanks. <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For none of us lives to himself, and none dies to himself. <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For both if we should live, it is to the Lord we live; and if we should die, it is to the Lord we die: both if we should live then, and if we should die, we are the Lord's. <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For to this end Christ has died and lived again, that he might rule over both dead and living. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But thou, why judgest thou thy brother? or again, thou, why dost thou make little of thy brother? for we shall all be placed before the judgment-seat of God. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For it is written, I live, saith the Lord, that to me shall bow every knee, and every tongue shall confess to God. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So then each of us shall give an account concerning himself to God. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let us no longer therefore judge one another; but judge ye this rather, not to put a stumbling-block or a fall-trap before his brother. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I know, and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus, that nothing is unclean of itself; except to him who reckons anything to be unclean, to that man it is unclean. <a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For if on account of meat thy brother is grieved, thou walkest no longer according to love. Destroy not him with thy meat for whom Christ has died. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let not then your good be evil spoken of; <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for the kingdom of God is not eating and drinking, but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For he that in this serves the Christ is acceptable to God and approved of men. <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So then let us pursue the things which tend to peace, and things whereby one shall build up another. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the sake of meat do not destroy the work of God. All things indeed are pure; but it is evil to that man who eats while stumbling in doing so. <a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is right not to eat meat, nor drink wine, nor do anything in which thy brother stumbles, or is offended, or is weak. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God. Blessed is he who does not judge himself in what he allows. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he that doubts, if he eat, is condemned; because it is not of faith; but whatever is not of faith is sin.</p>

</body>
</html>