<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Romans 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Romans 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience bearing witness with me in the Holy Spirit, <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that I have great grief and uninterrupted pain in my heart, <a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for I have wished, I myself, to be a curse from the Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen, according to flesh; <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who are Israelites; whose is the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the law-giving, and the service, and the promises; <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> whose are the fathers; and of whom, as according to flesh, is the Christ, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Not however as though the word of God had failed; for not all are Israel which are of Israel; <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> nor because they are seed of Abraham are all children: but, In Isaac shall a seed be called to thee. <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> That is, they that are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God; but the children of the promise are reckoned as seed. <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For this word is of promise, According to this time I will come, and there shall be a son to Sarah. <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And not only that, but Rebecca having conceived by one, Isaac our father, <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the children indeed being not yet born, or having done anything good or worthless (that the purpose of God according to election might abide, not of works, but of him that calls), <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> it was said to her, The greater shall serve the less: <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> according as it is written, I have loved Jacob, and I have hated Esau.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? Far be the thought. <a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For he says to Moses, I will shew mercy to whom I will shew mercy, and I will feel compassion for whom I will feel compassion. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So then it is not of him that wills, nor of him that runs, but of God that shews mercy. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For the scripture says to Pharaoh, For this very thing I have raised thee up from amongst men, that I might thus shew in thee my power, and so that my name should be declared in all the earth. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So then, to whom he will he shews mercy, and whom he will he hardens. <a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou wilt say to me then, Why does he yet find fault? for who resists his purpose? <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Aye, but thou, O man, who art thou that answerest again to God? Shall the thing formed say to him that has formed it, Why hast thou made me thus? <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Or has not the potter authority over the clay, out of the same lump to make one vessel to honour, and another to dishonour? <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And if God, minded to shew his wrath and to make his power known, endured with much long-suffering vessels of wrath fitted for destruction; <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and that he might make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy, which he had before prepared for glory, <a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> us, whom he has also called, not only from amongst the Jews, but also from amongst the nations?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> As he says also in Hosea, I will call not-my-people My people; and the-not-beloved Beloved. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And it shall be, in the place where it was said to them, Ye are not my people, there shall they be called Sons of the living God. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But Esaias cries concerning Israel, Should the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, the remnant shall be saved: <a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> for he is bringing the matter to an end, and cutting it short in righteousness; because a cutting short of the matter will the Lord accomplish upon the earth. <a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And according as Esaias said before, Unless the Lord of hosts had left us a seed, we had been as Sodom, and made like even as Gomorrha.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> What then shall we say? That they of the nations, who did not follow after righteousness, have attained righteousness, but the righteousness that is on the principle of faith. <a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But Israel, pursuing after a law of righteousness, has not attained to that law. <a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Wherefore? Because it was not on the principle of faith, but as of works. They have stumbled at the stumblingstone, <a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> according as it is written, Behold, I place in Zion a stone of stumbling and rock of offence: and he that believes on him shall not be ashamed.</p>

</body>
</html>