<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be my imitators, even as I also am of Christ. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now I praise you, that in all things ye are mindful of me; and that as I have directed you, ye keep the directions. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But I wish you to know that the Christ is the head of every man, but woman's head is the man, and the Christ's head God. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Every man praying or prophesying, having anything on his head, puts his head to shame. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But every woman praying or prophesying with her head uncovered puts her own head to shame; for it is one and the same as a shaved woman. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For if a woman be not covered, let her hair also be cut off. But if it be shameful to a woman to have her hair cut off or to be shaved, let her be covered. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For man indeed ought not to have his head covered, being God's image and glory; but woman is man's glory. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For man is not of woman, but woman of man. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For also man was not created for the sake of the woman, but woman for the sake of the man. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore ought the woman to have authority on her head, on account of the angels. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> However, neither is woman without man, nor man without woman, in the Lord. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For as the woman is of the man, so also is the man by the woman, but all things of God. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Judge in yourselves: is it comely that a woman should pray to God uncovered? <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Does not even nature itself teach you, that man, if he have long hair, it is a dishonour to him? <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But woman, if she have long hair, it is glory to her; for the long hair is given to her in lieu of a veil. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But if any one think to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor the assemblies of God.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But in prescribing to you on this which I now enter on, I do not praise, namely, that ye come together, not for the better, but for the worse. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For first, when ye come together in assembly, I hear there exist divisions among you, and I partly give credit to it. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For there must also be sects among you, that the approved may become manifest among you. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> When ye come therefore together into one place, it is not to eat the Lord's supper. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For each one in eating takes his own supper before others, and one is hungry and another drinks to excess. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Have ye not then houses for eating and drinking? or do ye despise the assembly of God, and put to shame them who have not? What shall I say to you? shall I praise you? In this point I do not praise.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For I received from the Lord, that which I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus, in the night in which he was delivered up, took bread, <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and having given thanks broke it, and said, This is my body, which is for you: this do in remembrance of me. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In like manner also the cup, after having supped, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood: this do, as often as ye shall drink it, in remembrance of me. <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For as often as ye shall eat this bread, and drink the cup, ye announce the death of the Lord, until he come. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> So that whosoever shall eat the bread, or drink the cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty in respect of the body and of the blood of the Lord. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But let a man prove himself, and thus eat of the bread, and drink of the cup. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For the eater and drinker eats and drinks judgment to himself, not distinguishing the body. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> On this account many among you are weak and infirm, and a good many are fallen asleep. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But if we judged ourselves, so were we not judged. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But being judged, we are disciplined of the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world. <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> So that, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, wait for one another. <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> If any one be hungry, let him eat at home, that ye may not come together for judgment. But the other things, whenever I come, I will set in order.</p>

</body>
</html>