<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And if I have prophecy, and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith, so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And if I shall dole out all my goods in food, and if I deliver up my body that I may be burned, but have not love, I profit nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Love has long patience, is kind; love is not emulous of others; love is not insolent and rash, is not puffed up, <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> does not behave in an unseemly manner, does not seek what is its own, is not quickly provoked, does not impute evil, <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> does not rejoice at iniquity but rejoices with the truth, <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Love never fails; but whether prophecies, they shall be done away; or tongues, they shall cease; or knowledge, it shall be done away. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For we know in part, and we prophesy in part: <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but when that which is perfect has come, that which is in part shall be done away. <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I felt as a child, I reasoned as a child; when I became a man, I had done with what belonged to the child. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For we see now through a dim window obscurely, but then face to face; now I know partially, but then I shall know according as I also have been known. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And now abide faith, hope, love; these three things; and the greater of these is love.</p>

</body>
</html>