<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I directed the assemblies of Galatia, so do ye do also. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> On the first of the week let each of you put by at home, laying up in whatever degree he may have prospered, that there may be no collections when I come. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when I am arrived, whomsoever ye shall approve, these I will send with letters to carry your bounty to Jerusalem: <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and if it be suitable that I also should go, they shall go with me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But I will come to you when I shall have gone through Macedonia; for I do go through Macedonia. <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But perhaps I will stay with you, or even winter with you, that ye may set me forward wheresoever I may go. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For I will not see you now in passing, for I hope to remain a certain time with you, if the Lord permit. <a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But I remain in Ephesus until Pentecost. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For a great door is opened to me and an effectual one, and the adversaries many.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now if Timotheus come, see that he may be with you without fear; for he works the work of the Lord, even as I. <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let not therefore any one despise him; but set him forward in peace, that he may come to me; for I expect him with the brethren. <a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now concerning the brother Apollos, I begged him much that he would go to you with the brethren; but it was not at all his will to go now; but he will come when he shall have good opportunity.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be vigilant; stand fast in the faith; quit yourselves like men; be strong. <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let all things ye do be done in love. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But I beseech you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the first-fruits of Achaia, and they have devoted themselves to the saints for service,) <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> that ye should also be subject to such, and to every one joined in the work and labouring. <a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But I rejoice in the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus; because they have supplied what was lacking on your part. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For they have refreshed my spirit and yours: own therefore such.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The assemblies of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla, with the assembly in their house, salute you much in the Lord. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> All the brethren salute you. Salute one another with a holy kiss. <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The salutation of me Paul with my own hand. <a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If any one love not the Lord Jesus Christ let him be Anathema Maranatha. <a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. <a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>