<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But concerning spiritual manifestations, brethren, I do not wish you to be ignorant. <a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye know that when ye were of the nations ye were led away to dumb idols, in whatever way ye might be led. <a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I give you therefore to know, that no one, speaking in the power of the Spirit of God, says, Curse on Jesus; and no one can say, Lord Jesus, unless in the power of the Holy Spirit. <a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But there are distinctions of gifts, but the same Spirit; <a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and there are distinctions of services, and the same Lord; <a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and there are distinctions of operations, but the same God who operates all things in all. <a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But to each the manifestation of the Spirit is given for profit. <a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For to one, by the Spirit, is given the word of wisdom; and to another the word of knowledge, according to the same Spirit; <a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and to a different one faith, in the power of the same Spirit; and to another gifts of healing in the power of the same Spirit; <a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and to another operations of miracles; and to another prophecy; and to another discerning of spirits; and to a different one kinds of tongues; and to another interpretation of tongues. <a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But all these things operates the one and the same Spirit, dividing to each in particular according as he pleases.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For even as the body is one and has many members, but all the members of the body, being many, are one body, so also is the Christ. <a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For also in the power of one Spirit we have all been baptised into one body, whether Jews or Greeks, whether bondmen or free, and have all been given to drink of one Spirit. <a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For also the body is not one member but many. <a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If the foot say, Because I am not a hand I am not of the body, is it on account of this not indeed of the body? <a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if the ear say, Because I am not an eye I am not of the body, is it on account of this not indeed of the body? <a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If the whole body were an eye, where the hearing? if all hearing, where the smelling? <a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But now God has set the members, each one of them in the body, according as it has pleased him. <a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But if all were one member, where the body? <a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But now the members are many, and the body one. <a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The eye cannot say to the hand, I have not need of thee; or again, the head to the feet, I have not need of you. <a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But much rather, the members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary; <a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and those parts of the body which we esteem to be the more void of honour, these we clothe with more abundant honour; and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness; <a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but our comely parts have not need. But God has tempered the body together, having given more abundant honour to the part that lacked; <a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> that there might be no division in the body, but that the members might have the same concern one for another. <a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And if one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; and if one member be glorified, all the members rejoice with it.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Now ye are Christ's body, and members in particular. <a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And God has set certain in the assembly: first, apostles; secondly, prophets; thirdly, teachers; then miraculous powers; then gifts of healings; helps; governments; kinds of tongues. <a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all in possession of miraculous powers? <a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> have all gifts of healings? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret? <a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But desire earnestly the greater gifts, and yet shew I unto you a way of more surpassing excellence.</p>

</body>
</html>