<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But I make known to you, brethren, the glad tidings which I announced to you, which also ye received, in which also ye stand, <a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> by which also ye are saved, (if ye hold fast the word which I announced to you as the glad tidings,) unless indeed ye have believed in vain. <a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I delivered to you, in the first place, what also I had received, that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures; <a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and that he was buried; and that he was raised the third day, according to the scriptures; <a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. <a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then he appeared to above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the most remain until now, but some also have fallen asleep. <a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then he appeared to James; then to all the apostles; <a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and last of all, as to an abortion, he appeared to me also. <a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I am the least of the apostles, who am not fit to be called apostle, because I have persecuted the assembly of God. <a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But by God's grace I am what I am; and his grace, which was towards me, has not been vain; but I have laboured more abundantly than they all, but not I, but the grace of God which was with me. <a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Whether, therefore, I or they, thus we preach, and thus ye have believed.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now if Christ is preached that he is raised from among the dead, how say some among you that there is not a resurrection of those that are dead? <a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But if there is not a resurrection of those that are dead, neither is Christ raised: <a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but if Christ is not raised, then, indeed, vain also is our preaching, and vain also your faith. <a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And we are found also false witnesses of God; for we have witnessed concerning God that he raised the Christ, whom he has not raised if indeed those that are dead are not raised. <a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For if those that are dead are not raised, neither is Christ raised; <a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> but if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins. <a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then indeed also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. <a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are the most miserable of all men.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> (But now Christ is raised from among the dead, first-fruits of those fallen asleep. <a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For since by man came death, by man also resurrection of those that are dead. <a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For as in the Adam all die, thus also in the Christ all shall be made alive. <a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But each in his own rank: the first-fruits, Christ; then those that are the Christ's at his coming. <a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then the end, when he gives up the kingdom to him who is God and Father; when he shall have annulled all rule and all authority and power. <a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he must reign until he put all enemies under his feet. <a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The last enemy that is annulled is death. <a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For he has put all things in subjection under his feet. But when he says that all things are put in subjection, it is evident that it is except him who put all things in subjection to him. <a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But when all things shall have been brought into subjection to him, then the Son also himself shall be placed in subjection to him who put all things in subjection to him, that God may be all in all.) <a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Since what shall the baptised for the dead do if those that are dead rise not at all? why also are they baptised for them? <a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Why do we also endanger ourselves every hour? <a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Daily I die, by your boasting which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord. <a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> If, to speak after the manner of man, I have fought with beasts in Ephesus, what is the profit to me if those that are dead do not rise? let us eat and drink; for to-morrow we die. <a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Be not deceived: evil communications corrupt good manners. <a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Awake up righteously, and sin not; for some are ignorant of God: I speak to you as a matter of shame.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But some one will say, How are the dead raised? and with what body do they come? <a id="c15_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Fool; what thou sowest is not quickened unless it die. <a id="c15_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And what thou sowest, thou sowest not the body that shall be, but a bare grain: it may be of wheat, or some one of the rest: <a id="c15_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and God gives to it a body as he has pleased, and to each of the seeds its own body. <a id="c15_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Every flesh is not the same flesh, but one is of men, and another flesh of beasts, and another flesh of birds, and another of fishes. <a id="c15_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And there are heavenly bodies, and earthly bodies: but different is the glory of the heavenly, different that of the earthly: <a id="c15_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> one the sun's glory, and another the moon's glory, and another the stars' glory; for star differs from star in glory. <a id="c15_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Thus also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruptibility. <a id="c15_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> It is sown in dishonour, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. <a id="c15_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body: if there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual one. <a id="c15_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Thus also it is written, The first man Adam became a living soul; the last Adam a quickening spirit. <a id="c15_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> But that which is spiritual was not first, but that which is natural, then that which is spiritual: <a id="c15_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> the first man out of the earth, made of dust; the second man, out of heaven. <a id="c15_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Such as he made of dust, such also those made of dust; and such as the heavenly one, such also the heavenly ones. <a id="c15_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And as we have borne the image of the one made of dust, we shall bear also the image of the heavenly one. <a id="c15_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> But this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit God's kingdom, nor does corruption inherit incorruptibility.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Behold, I tell you a mystery: We shall not all fall asleep, but we shall all be changed, <a id="c15_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> in an instant, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet; for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. <a id="c15_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> For this corruptible must needs put on incorruptibility, and this mortal put on immortality. <a id="c15_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> But when this corruptible shall have put on incorruptibility, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall come to pass the word written: Death has been swallowed up in victory. <a id="c15_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> Where, O death, is thy sting? where, O death, thy victory? <a id="c15_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> Now the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin the law; <a id="c15_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> but thanks to God, who gives us the victory by our Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> So then, my beloved brethren, be firm, immovable, abounding always in the work of the Lord, knowing that your toil is not in vain in the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>