<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> It is universally reported that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not even among the nations, so that one should have his father's wife. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And ye are puffed up, and ye have not rather mourned, in order that he that has done this deed might be taken away out of the midst of you. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I, as absent in body but present in spirit, have already judged as present, <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to deliver, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ (ye and my spirit being gathered together, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ), him that has so wrought this: <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> to deliver him, I say, being such, to Satan for destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Your boasting is not good. Do ye not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Purge out the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, according as ye are unleavened. For also our passover, Christ, has been sacrificed; <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> so that let us celebrate the feast, not with old leaven, nor with leaven of malice and wickedness, but with unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I have written to you in the epistle not to mix with fornicators; <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the avaricious and rapacious, or idolaters, since then ye should go out of the world. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But now I have written to you, if any one called brother be fornicator, or avaricious, or idolater, or abusive, or a drunkard, or rapacious, not to mix with him; with such a one not even to eat. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For what have I to do with judging those outside also? ye, do not ye judge them that are within? <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But those without God judges. Remove the wicked person from amongst yourselves.</p>

</body>
</html>