<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But concerning things sacrificed to idols, we know, (for we all have knowledge: knowledge puffs up, but love edifies. <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If any one think he knows anything, he knows nothing yet as he ought to know it. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But if any one love God, he is known of him):</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> --concerning then the eating of things sacrificed to idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is no other God save one. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For and if indeed there are those called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, (as there are gods many, and lords many,) <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> yet to us there is one God, the Father, of whom all things, and we for him; and one Lord, Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But knowledge is not in all: but some, with conscience of the idol, until now eat as of a thing sacrificed to idols; and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But meat does not commend us to God; neither if we should not eat do we come short; nor if we should eat have we an advantage. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But see lest anywise this your right to eat itself be a stumbling-block to the weak. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For if any one see thee, who hast knowledge, sitting at table in an idol-house, shall not his conscience, he being weak, be emboldened to eat the things sacrificed to the idol? <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and the weak one, the brother for whose sake Christ died, will perish through thy knowledge. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now, thus sinning against the brethren, and wounding their weak conscience, ye sin against Christ. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Wherefore if meat be a fall-trap to my brother, I will eat no flesh for ever, that I may not be a fall-trap to my brother.</p>

</body>
</html>