<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I, brethren, have not been able to speak to you as to spiritual, but as to fleshly; as to babes in Christ. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have given you milk to drink, not meat, for ye have not yet been able, nor indeed are ye yet able; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for ye are yet carnal. For whereas there are among you emulation and strife, are ye not carnal, and walk according to man? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For when one says, I am of Paul, and another, I of Apollos, are ye not men?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who then is Apollos, and who Paul? Ministering servants, through whom ye have believed, and as the Lord has given to each. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have planted; Apollos watered; but God has given the increase. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So that neither the planter is anything, nor the waterer; but God the giver of the increase. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But the planter and the waterer are one; but each shall receive his own reward according to his own labour. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For we are God's fellow-workmen; ye are God's husbandry, God's building. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> According to the grace of God which has been given to me, as a wise architect, I have laid the foundation, but another builds upon it. But let each see how he builds upon it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For other foundation can no man lay besides that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now if any one build upon this foundation, gold, silver, precious stones, wood, grass, straw, <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> the work of each shall be made manifest; for the day shall declare it, because it is revealed in fire; and the fire shall try the work of each what it is. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If the work of any one which he has built upon the foundation shall abide, he shall receive a reward. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If the work of any one shall be consumed, he shall suffer loss, but he shall be saved, but so as through the fire.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Do ye not know that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If any one corrupt the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, and such are ye.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Let no one deceive himself: if any one thinks himself to be wise among you in this world, let him become foolish, that he may be wise. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God; for it is written, He who takes the wise in their craftiness. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And again, The Lord knows the reasonings of the wise that they are vain.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So that let no one boast in men; for all things are yours. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things coming, all are yours; <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and ye are Christ's, and Christ is God's.</p>

</body>
</html>