<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But concerning the things of which ye have written to me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman; <a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> but on account of fornications, let each have his own wife, and each woman have her own husband. <a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let the husband render her due to the wife, and in like manner the wife to the husband. <a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The wife has not authority over her own body, but the husband: in like manner also the husband has not authority over his own body, but the wife. <a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Defraud not one another, unless, it may be, by consent for a time, that ye may devote yourselves to prayer, and again be together, that Satan tempt you not because of your incontinency. <a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But this I say, as consenting to, not as commanding it. <a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now I wish all men to be even as myself: but every one has his own gift of God: one man thus, and another thus. <a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But I say to the unmarried and to the widows, It is good for them that they remain even as I. <a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But if they have not control over themselves, let them marry; for it is better to marry than to burn.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But to the married I enjoin, not I, but the Lord, Let not wife be separated from husband; <a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> (but if also she shall have been separated, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband;) and let not husband leave wife. <a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But as to the rest, I say, not the Lord, If any brother have an unbelieving wife, and she consent to dwell with him, let him not leave her. <a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And a woman who has an unbelieving husband, and he consents to dwell with her, let her not leave her husband. <a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For the unbelieving husband is sanctified in the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified in the brother; since otherwise indeed your children are unclean, but now they are holy. <a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But if the unbeliever go away, let them go away; a brother or a sister is not bound in such cases, but God has called us in peace. <a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For what knowest thou, O wife, if thou shalt save thy husband? or what knowest thou, O husband, if thou shalt save thy wife?</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> However, as the Lord has divided to each, as God has called each, so let him walk; and thus I ordain in all the assemblies. <a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Has any one been called circumcised? let him not become uncircumcised: has any one been called in uncircumcision? let him not be circumcised. <a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing; but keeping God's commandments. <a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Let each abide in that calling in which he has been called. <a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Hast thou been called being a bondman, let it not concern thee; but and if thou canst become free, use it rather. <a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For the bondman that is called in the Lord is the Lord's freedman; in like manner also the freeman being called is Christ's bondman. <a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Ye have been bought with a price; do not be the bondmen of men. <a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Let each, wherein he is called, brethren, therein abide with God.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord; but I give my opinion, as having received mercy of the Lord to be faithful. <a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I think then that this is good, on account of the present necessity, that it is good for a man to remain so as he is. <a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Art thou bound to a wife? seek not to be loosed; art thou free from a wife? do not seek a wife. <a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if thou shouldest also marry, thou hast not sinned; and if the virgin marry, they have not sinned: but such shall have tribulation in the flesh; but I spare you. <a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But this I say, brethren, the time is straitened. For the rest, that they who have wives, be as not having any: <a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and they that weep, as not weeping; and they that rejoice, as not rejoicing; and they that buy, as not possessing; <a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and they that use the world, as not disposing of it as their own; for the fashion of this world passes. <a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But I wish you to be without care. The unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, how he shall please the Lord; <a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> but he that has married cares for the things of the world, how he shall please his wife. <a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> There is a difference between the wife and the virgin. The unmarried cares for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit; but she that has married cares for the things of the world, how she shall please her husband. <a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But I say this for your own profit; not that I may set a snare before you, but for what is seemly, and waiting on the Lord without distraction.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But if any one think that he behaves unseemly to his virginity, if he be beyond the flower of his age, and so it must be, let him do what he will, he does not sin: let them marry. <a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> But he who stands firm in his heart, having no need, but has authority over his own will, and has judged this in his heart to keep his own virginity, he does well. <a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> So that he that marries himself does well; and he that does not marry does better.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> A wife is bound for whatever time her husband lives; but if the husband be fallen asleep, she is free to be married to whom she will, only in the Lord. <a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But she is happier if she so remain, according to my judgment; but I think that I also have God's Spirit.</p>

</body>
</html>