<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Dare any one of you, having a matter against another, prosecute his suit before the unjust, and not before the saints? <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Do ye not then know that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world is judged by you, are ye unworthy of the smallest judgments? <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do ye not know that we shall judge angels? and not then matters of this life? <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If then ye have judgments as to things of this life, set those to judge who are little esteemed in the assembly. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I speak to you to put you to shame. Thus there is not a wise person among you, not even one, who shall be able to decide between his brethren! <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But brother prosecutes his suit with brother, and that before unbelievers. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Already indeed then it is altogether a fault in you that ye have suits between yourselves. Why do ye not rather suffer wrong? why are ye not rather defrauded? <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But ye do wrong, and defraud, and this your brethren.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do ye not know that unrighteous persons shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not err: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor those who make women of themselves, nor who abuse themselves with men, <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor abusive persons, nor the rapacious, shall inherit the kingdom of God. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And these things were some of you; but ye have been washed, but ye have been sanctified, but ye have been justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All things are lawful to me, but all things do not profit; all things are lawful to me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats; but God will bring to nothing both it and them: but the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And God has both raised up the Lord, and will raise us up from among the dead by his power. <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Do ye not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then, taking the members of the Christ, make them members of a harlot? Far be the thought. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Do ye not know that he that is joined to the harlot is one body? for the two, he says, shall be one flesh. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But he that is joined to the Lord is one Spirit. <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Flee fornication. Every sin which a man may practise is without the body, but he that commits fornication sins against his own body. <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Do ye not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit which is in you, which ye have of God; and ye are not your own? <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for ye have been bought with a price: glorify now then God in your body.</p>

</body>
</html>