<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Am I not free? am I not an apostle? have I not seen Jesus our Lord? are not ye my work in the Lord? <a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> If I am not an apostle to others, yet at any rate I am to you: for the seal of mine apostleship are ye in the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> My defence to those who examine me is this: <a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Have we not a right to eat and to drink? <a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> have we not a right to take round a sister as wife, as also the other apostles, and the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas? <a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Or I alone and Barnabas, have we not a right not to work? <a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who ever carries on war at his own charges? who plants a vineyard and does not eat of its fruit? or who herds a flock and does not eat of the milk of the flock? <a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Do I speak these things as a man, or does not the law also say these things? <a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For in the law of Moses it is written, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that is treading out corn. Is God occupied about the oxen, <a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> or does he say it altogether for our sakes? For for our sakes it has been written, that the plougher should plough in hope, and he that treads out corn, in hope of partaking of it. <a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If we have sown to you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap your carnal things? <a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If others partake of this right over you, should not rather we? But we have not used this right, but we bear all things, that we may put no hindrance in the way of the glad tidings of the Christ. <a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Do ye not know that they who labour at sacred things eat of the offerings offered in the temple; they that attend at the altar partake with the altar? <a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> So also the Lord has ordained to those that announce the glad tidings to live of the glad tidings.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But I have used none of these things. Now I have not written these things that it should be thus in my case; for it were good for me rather to die than that any one should make vain my boast. <a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For if I announce the glad tidings, I have nothing to boast of; for a necessity is laid upon me; for it is woe to me if I should not announce the glad tidings. <a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For if I do this voluntarily, I have a reward; but if not of my own will, I am entrusted with an administration. <a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What is the reward then that I have? That in announcing the glad tidings I make the glad tidings costless to others, so as not to have made use, as belonging to me, of my right in announcing the glad tidings.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For being free from all, I have made myself bondman to all, that I might gain the most possible. <a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And I became to the Jews as a Jew, in order that I might gain the Jews: to those under law, as under law, not being myself under law, in order that I might gain those under law: <a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> to those without law, as without law, (not as without law to God, but as legitimately subject to Christ,) in order that I might gain those without law. <a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> I became to the weak, as weak, in order that I might gain the weak. To all I have become all things, in order that at all events I might save some. <a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I do all things for the sake of the glad tidings, that I may be fellow-partaker with them.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Know ye not that they who run in the race-course run all, but one receives the prize? Thus run in order that ye may obtain. <a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But every one that contends for a prize is temperate in all things: they then indeed that they may receive a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. <a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I therefore thus run, as not uncertainly; so I combat, as not beating the air. <a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But I buffet my body, and lead it captive, lest after having preached to others I should be myself rejected.</p>

</body>
</html>