<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, a called apostle of Jesus Christ, by God's will, and Sosthenes the brother, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to the assembly of God which is in Corinth, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called saints, with all that in every place call on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both theirs and ours: <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I thank my God always about you, in respect of the grace of God given to you in Christ Jesus; <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that in everything ye have been enriched in him, in all word of doctrine, and all knowledge, <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> (according as the testimony of the Christ has been confirmed in you,) <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> so that ye come short in no gift, awaiting the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> who shall also confirm you to the end, unimpeachable in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> God is faithful, by whom ye have been called into the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now I exhort you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all say the same thing, and that there be not among you divisions; but that ye be perfectly united in the same mind and in the same opinion. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For it has been shewn to me concerning you, my brethren, by those of the house of Chloe, that there are strifes among you. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But I speak of this, that each of you says, I am of Paul, and I of Apollos, and I of Cephas, and I of Christ. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Is the Christ divided? has Paul been crucified for you? or have ye been baptised unto the name of Paul?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I thank God that I have baptised none of you, unless Crispus and Gaius, <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> that no one may say that I have baptised unto my own name. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yes, I baptised also the house of Stephanas; for the rest I know not if I have baptised any other.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For Christ has not sent me to baptise, but to preach glad tidings; not in wisdom of word, that the cross of the Christ may not be made vain. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For the word of the cross is to them that perish foolishness, but to us that are saved it is God's power. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and set aside the understanding of the understanding ones. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Where is the wise? where scribe? where disputer of this world? has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For since, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom has not known God, God has been pleased by the foolishness of the preaching to save those that believe. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Since Jews indeed ask for signs, and Greeks seek wisdom; <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> but we preach Christ crucified, to Jews an offence, and to nations foolishness; <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but to those that are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ God's power and God's wisdom. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For consider your calling, brethren, that there are not many wise according to flesh, not many powerful, not many high-born. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But God has chosen the foolish things of the world, that he may put to shame the wise; and God has chosen the weak things of the world, that he may put to shame the strong things; <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and the ignoble things of the world, and the despised, has God chosen, and things that are not, that he may annul the things that are; <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> so that no flesh should boast before God. <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who has been made to us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and holiness, and redemption; <a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> that according as it is written, He that boasts, let him boast in the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>