<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let a man so account of us as servants of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Here, further, it is sought in stewards, that a man be found faithful. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But for me it is the very smallest matter that I be examined of you or of man's day. Nor do I even examine myself. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For I am conscious of nothing in myself; but I am not justified by this: but he that examines me is the Lord. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> So that do not judge anything before the time, until the Lord shall come, who shall also both bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and shall make manifest the counsels of hearts; and then shall each have hispraise from God. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now these things, brethren, I have transferred, in their application, to myself and Apollos, for your sakes, that ye may learn in us the lesson of not letting your thoughts goabove what is written, that ye may not be puffed up one for such a one against another.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For who makes thee to differ? and what hast thou which thou hast not received? but if also thou hast received, why boastest thou as not receiving? <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Already ye are filled; already ye have been enriched; ye have reigned without us; and I would that ye reigned, that we also might reign with you. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For I think that God has set us the apostles for the last, as appointed to death. For we have become a spectacle to the world, both to angels and men. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye prudent in Christ: we weak, but ye strong: ye glorious, but we in dishonour. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> To the present hour we both hunger and thirst, and are in nakedness, and buffeted, and wander without a home, <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and labour, working with our own hands. Railed at, we bless; persecuted, we suffer it; <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> insulted, we entreat: we are become as the offscouring of the world, the refuse of all, until now.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Not as chiding do I write these things to you, but as my beloved children I admonish you. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For if ye should have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet not many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the glad tidings. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I entreat you therefore, be my imitators.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For this reason I have sent to you Timotheus, who is my beloved and faithful child in the Lord, who shall put you in mind of my ways as they are in Christ, according as I teach everywhere in every assembly. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But some have been puffed up, as if I were not coming to you; <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but I will come quickly to you, if the Lord will; and I will know, not the word of those that are puffed up, but the power. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> What will ye? that I come to you with a rod; or in love, and in a spirit of meekness?</p>

</body>
</html>