<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea; <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and all were baptised unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea; <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and all ate the same spiritual food, <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank of a spiritual rock which followed them: (now the rock was the Christ;) <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> yet God was not pleased with the most of them, for they were strewed in the desert.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But these things happened as types of us, that we should not be lusters after evil things, as they also lusted. <a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Neither be ye idolaters, as some of them; as it is written, The people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed fornication, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand. <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Neither let us tempt the Christ, as some of them tempted, and perished by serpents. <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Neither murmur ye, as some of them murmured, and perished by the destroyer. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now all these things happened to them as types, and have been written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the ages are come. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So that let him that thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall. <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> No temptation has taken you but such as is according to man's nature; and God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above what ye are able to bear, but will with the temptation make the issue also, so that yeshould be able to bear it. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I speak as to intelligent persons: do ye judge what I say. <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of the Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of the Christ? <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because we, being many, are one loaf, one body; for we all partake of that one loaf. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> See Israel according to flesh: are not they who eat the sacrifices in communion with the altar? <a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> What then do I say? that what is sacrificed to an idol is anything, or that an idol is anything? <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But that what the nations sacrifice they sacrifice to demons, and not to God. Now I do not wish you to be in communion with demons. <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Ye cannot drink the Lord's cup, and the cup of demons: ye cannot partake of the Lord's table, and of the table of demons. <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? are we stronger than he?</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> All things are lawful, but all are not profitable; all things are lawful, but all do not edify. <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Let no one seek his own advantage, but that of the other. <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Everything sold in the shambles eat, making no inquiry for conscience sake. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For the earth is the Lord's and its fulness. <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But if any one of the unbelievers invite you, and ye are minded to go, all that is set before you eat, making no inquiry for conscience sake. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if any one say to you, This is offered to holy purposes, do not eat, for his sake that pointed it out, and conscience sake; <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but conscience, I mean, not thine own, but that of the other: for why is my liberty judged by another conscience? <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If I partake with thanksgiving, why am I spoken evil of for what I give thanks for? <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatever ye do, do all things to God's glory. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Give no occasion to stumbling, whether to Jews, or Greeks, or the assembly of God. <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Even as I also please all in all things; not seeking my own profit, but that of the many, that they may be saved.</p>

</body>
</html>