<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Corinthians 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Corinthians 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Follow after love, and be emulous of spiritual manifestations, but rather that ye may prophesy. <a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For he that speaks with a tongue does not speak to men but to God: for no one hears; but in spirit he speaks mysteries. <a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But he that prophesies speaks to men in edification, and encouragement, and consolation. <a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He that speaks with a tongue edifies himself; but he that prophesies edifies the assembly. <a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now I desire that ye should all speak with tongues, but rather that ye should prophesy. But greater is he that prophesies than he that speaks with tongues, unless he interpret, that the assembly may receive edification.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And now, brethren, if I come to you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you, unless I shall speak to you either in revelation, or in knowledge, or in prophecy, or in teaching? <a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Even lifeless things giving a sound, whether pipe or harp, if they give not distinction to the sounds, how shall it be known what is piped or harped? <a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For also, if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself for war? <a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thus also ye with the tongue, unless ye give a distinct speech, how shall it be known what is spoken? for ye will be speaking to the air. <a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> There are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and none of undistinguishable sound. <a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If therefore I do not know the power of the sound, I shall be to him that speaks a barbarian, and he that speaks a barbarian for me. <a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Thus ye also, since ye are desirous of spirits, seek that ye may abound for the edification of the assembly. <a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Wherefore let him that speaks with a tongue pray that he may interpret. <a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For if I pray with a tongue, my spirit prays, but my understanding is unfruitful.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, but I will pray also with the understanding; I will sing with the spirit, but I will sing also with the understanding. <a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Since otherwise, if thou blessest with the spirit, how shall he who fills the place of the simple Christian say Amen, at thy giving of thanks, since he does not know what thou sayest? <a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For thou indeed givest thanks well, but the other is not edified. <a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I thank God I speak in a tongue more than all of you: <a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but in the assembly I desire to speak five words with my understanding, that I may instruct others also, rather than ten thousand words in a tongue. <a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Brethren, be not children in your minds, but in malice be babes; but in your minds be grown men.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It is written in the law, By people of other tongues, and by strange lips, will I speak to this people; and neither thus will they hear me, saith the Lord. <a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> So that tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to unbelievers; but prophecy, not to unbelievers, but to those who believe. <a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If therefore the whole assembly come together in one place, and all speak with tongues, and simple persons enter in, or unbelievers, will not they say ye are mad? <a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But if all prophesy, and some unbeliever or simple person come in, he is convicted of all, he is judged of all; <a id="c14_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> the secrets of his heart are manifested; and thus, falling upon his face, he will do homage to God, reporting that God is indeed amongst you.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> What is it then, brethren? whenever ye come together, each of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a tongue, has a revelation, has an interpretation. Let all things be done to edification. <a id="c14_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If any one speak with a tongue, let it be two, or at the most three, and separately, and let one interpret; <a id="c14_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> but if there be no interpreter, let him be silent in the assembly, and let him speak to himself and to God. <a id="c14_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And let two or three prophets speak, and let the others judge. <a id="c14_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But if there be a revelation to another sitting there, let the first be silent. <a id="c14_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For ye can all prophesy one by one, that all may learn and all be encouraged. <a id="c14_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And spirits of prophets are subject to prophets. <a id="c14_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For God is not a God of disorder but of peace, as in all the assemblies of the saints.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let your women be silent in the assemblies, for it is not permitted to them to speak; but to be in subjection, as the law also says. <a id="c14_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But if they wish to learn anything, let them ask their own husbands at home; for it is a shame for a woman to speak in assembly.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Did the word of God go out from you, or did it come to you only? <a id="c14_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> If any one thinks himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him recognise the things that I write to you, that it is the Lord's commandment. <a id="c14_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But if any be ignorant, let him be ignorant. <a id="c14_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> So that, brethren, desire to prophesy, and do not forbid the speaking with tongues. <a id="c14_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> But let all things be done comelily and with order.</p>

</body>
</html>