<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But I have judged this with myself, not to come back to you in grief. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For if I grieve you, who also is it that gladdens me, if not he that is grieved through me? <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I have written this very letter to you, that coming I may not have grief from those from whom I ought to have joy; trusting in you all that my joy is that of you all. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For out of much tribulation and distress of heart I wrote to you, with many tears; not that ye may be grieved, but that ye may know the love which I have very abundantly towards you.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if any one has grieved, he has grieved, not me, but in part (that I may not overcharge you) all of you. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Sufficient to such a one is this rebuke which has been inflicted by the many; <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> so that on the contrary ye should rather shew grace and encourage, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with excessive grief. <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wherefore I exhort you to assure him of your love. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For to this end also I have written, that I might know, by putting you to the test, if as to everything ye are obedient. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But to whom ye forgive anything, I also; for I also, what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, it is for your sakes in the person of Christ; <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> that we might not have Satan get an advantage against us, for we are not ignorant of his thoughts.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now when I came to Troas for the publication of the glad tidings of the Christ, a door also being opened to me in the Lord, <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I had no rest in my spirit at not finding Titus my brother; but bidding them adieu, I came away to Macedonia. <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But thanks be to God, who always leads us in triumph in the Christ, and makes manifest the odour of his knowledge through us in every place. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For we are a sweet odour of Christ to God, in the saved and in those that perish: <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> to the one an odour from death unto death, but to the others an odour from life unto life; and who is sufficient for these things? <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For we do not, as the many, make a trade of the word of God; but as of sincerity, but as of God, before God, we speak in Christ.</p>

</body>
</html>