<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This third time I am coming to you. In the mouth of two or three witnesses shall every matter be established. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have declared beforehand, and I say beforehand as present the second time, and now absent, to those that have sinned before, and to all the rest, that if I come again I will not spare. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Since ye seek a proof of Christ speaking in me, (who is not weak towards you, but is powerful among you, <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> for if indeed he has been crucified in weakness, yet he lives by God's power; for indeed we are weak in him, but we shall live with him by God's power towards you,) <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> examine your own selves if ye be in the faith; prove your own selves: do ye not recognise yourselves, that Jesus Christ is in you, unless indeed ye be reprobates? <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now I hope that ye will know that we are not reprobates.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But we pray to God that ye may do nothing evil; not that we may appear approved, but that ye may do what is right, and we be as reprobates. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For we can do nothing against the truth, but for the truth. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For we rejoice when we may be weak and ye may be powerful. But this also we pray for, your perfecting. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> On this account I write these things being absent, that being present I may not use severity according to the authority which the Lord has given me for building up, and not for overthrowing.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the rest, brethren, rejoice; be perfected; be encouraged; be of one mind; be at peace; and the God of love and peace shall be with you. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Salute one another with a holy kiss. <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> All the saints salute you. <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Spirit, be with you all.</p>

</body>
</html>