<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But we make known to you, brethren, the grace of God bestowed in the assemblies of Macedonia; <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that in a great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty has abounded to the riches of their free-hearted liberality. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For according to their power, I bear witness, and beyond their power, they were willing of their own accord, <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> begging of us with much entreaty to give effect to the grace and fellowship of the service which was to be rendered to the saints. <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And not according as we hoped, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and to us by God's will. <a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So that we begged Titus that, according as he had before begun, so he would also complete as to you this grace also;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> but even as ye abound in every way, in faith, and word, and knowledge, and all diligence, and in love from you to us, that ye may abound in this grace also. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I do not speak as commanding it, but through the zeal of others, and proving the genuineness of your love. <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that for your sakes he, being rich, became poor, in order that ye by his poverty might be enriched. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And I give my opinion in this, for this is profitable for you who began before, not only to do, but also to be willing, a year ago. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But now also complete the doing of it; so that as there was the readiness to be willing, so also to complete out of what ye have. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For if the readiness be there, a man is accepted according to what he may have, not according to what he has not. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For it is not in order that there may be ease for others, and for you distress, <a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but on the principle of equality; in the present time your abundance for their lack, that their abundance may be for your lack, so that there should be equality. <a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> According as it is written, He who gathered much had no excess, and he who gathered little was nothing short.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But thanks be to God, who gives the same diligent zeal for you in the heart of Titus. <a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For he received indeed the entreaty, but, being full of zeal, he went of his own accord to you; <a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> but we have sent with him the brother whose praise is in the glad tidings through all the assemblies; <a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and not only so, but is also chosen by the assemblies as our fellow-traveller with this grace, ministered by us to the glory of the Lord himself, and a witness of our readiness; <a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> avoiding this, that any one should blame us in this abundance which is administered by us; <a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> for we provide for things honest, not only before the Lord, but also before men. <a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And we have sent with them our brother whom we have often proved to be of diligent zeal in many things, and now more diligently zealous through the great confidence he has as to you. <a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whether as regards Titus, he is my companion and fellow-labourer in your behalf; or our brethren, they are deputed messengers of assemblies, Christ's glory. <a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shew therefore to them, before the assemblies, the proof of your love, and of our boasting about you.</p>

</body>
</html>