<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Would that ye would bear with me in a little folly; but indeed bear with me. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For I am jealous as to you with a jealousy which is of God; for I have espoused you unto one man, to present you a chaste virgin to Christ. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But I fear lest by any means, as the serpent deceived Eve by his craft, so your thoughts should be corrupted from simplicity as to the Christ. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For if indeed he that comes preaches another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or ye get a different Spirit, which ye have not got, or a different glad tidings, which ye have not received, ye might well bear with it.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I reckon that in nothing I am behind those who are in surpassing degree apostles. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But if I am a simple person in speech, yet not in knowledge, but in everything making the truth manifest in all things to you. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Have I committed sin, abasing myself in order that ye might be exalted, because I gratuitously announced to you the glad tidings of God? <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I spoiled other assemblies, receiving hire for ministry towards you. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And being present with you and lacking, I did not lazily burden any one, (for the brethren who came from Macedonia supplied what I lacked,) and in everything I kept myself from being a burden to you, and will keep myself. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The truth of Christ is in me that this boasting shall not be stopped as to me in the regions of Achaia. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why? because I do not love you? God knows. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But what I do, I will also do, that I may cut off the opportunity of those wishing for an opportunity, that wherein they boast they may be found even as we. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into apostles of Christ. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it is not wonderful, for Satan himself transforms himself into an angel of light. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> It is no great thing therefore if his ministers also transform themselves as ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Again I say, Let not any one think me to be a fool; but if otherwise, receive me then even as a fool, that I also may boast myself some little. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> What I speak I do not speak according to the Lord, but as in folly, in this confidence of boasting. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Since many boast according to flesh, I also will boast. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For ye bear fools readily, being wise. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For ye bear if any one bring you into bondage, if any one devour you, if any one get your money, if any one exalt himself, if any one beat you on the face. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I speak as to dishonour, as though we had been weak; but wherein any one is daring, (I speak in folly,) I also am daring.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Are they Hebrews? I also. Are they Israelites? I also. Are they seed of Abraham? I also. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as being beside myself) I above measure so; in labours exceedingly abundant, in stripes to excess, in prisons exceedingly abundant, in deaths oft. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> From the Jews five times have I received forty stripes, save one. <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Thrice have I been scourged, once I have been stoned, three times I have suffered shipwreck, a night and day I passed in the deep: <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> in journeyings often, in perils of rivers, in perils of robbers, in perils from my own race, in perils from the nations, in perils in the city, in perils in thedesert, in perils on the sea, in perils among false brethren; <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> in labour and toil, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Besides those things that are without, the crowd of cares pressing on me daily, the burden of all the assemblies. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is stumbled, and I burn not? <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If it is needful to boast, I will boast in the things which concern my infirmity. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The God and Father of the Lord Jesus knows--he who is blessed for ever--that I do not lie. <a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> In Damascus the ethnarch of Aretas the king kept the city of the Damascenes shut up, wishing to take me; <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and through a window in a basket I was let down by the wall, and escaped his hands.</p>

</body>
</html>