<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Corinthians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Corinthians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Do we begin again to commend ourselves? or do we need, as some, commendatory letters to you, or commendatory from you? <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Ye are our letter, written in our hearts, known and read of all men, <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> being manifested to be Christ's epistle ministered by us, written, not with ink, but the Spirit of the living God; not on stone tables, but on fleshy tables of the heart. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And such confidence have we through the Christ towards God: <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> not that we are competent of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but our competency is of God;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who has also made us competent, as ministers of the new covenant; not of letter, but of spirit. For the letter kills, but the Spirit quickens. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> (But if the ministry of death, in letters, graven in stones, began with glory, so that the children of Israel could not fix their eyes on the face of Moses, on account of the glory of his face, a glory which is annulled; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> how shall not rather the ministry of the Spirit subsist in glory? <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> For if the ministry of condemnation be glory, much rather the ministry of righteousness abounds in glory. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For also that which was glorified is not glorified in this respect, on account of the surpassing glory. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For if that annulled was introduced with glory, much rather that which abides subsists in glory.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Having therefore such hope, we use much boldness: <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and not according as Moses put a veil on his own face, so that the children of Israel should not fix their eyes on the end of that annulled. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But their thoughts have been darkened, for unto this day the same veil remains in reading the old covenant, unremoved, which in Christ is annulled. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But unto this day, when Moses is read, the veil lies upon their heart. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But when it shall turn to the Lord, the veil is taken away.) <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now the Lord is the Spirit, but where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But we all, looking on the glory of the Lord, with unveiled face, are transformed according to the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Lord the Spirit.</p>

</body>
</html>