<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now I say, As long as the heir is a child, he differs nothing from a bondman, though he be lord of all; <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> but he is under guardians and stewards until the period fixed by the father. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So we also, when we were children, were held in bondage under the principles of the world; <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but when the fulness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, come of woman, come under law, <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> that he might redeem those under law, that we might receive sonship. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But because ye are sons, God has sent out the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> So thou art no longer bondman, but son; but if son, heir also through God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But then indeed, not knowing God, ye were in bondage to those who by nature are not gods; <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> but now, knowing God, but rather being known by God, how do ye turn again to the weak and beggarly principles to which ye desire to be again anew in bondage? <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Ye observe days and months and times and years. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I am afraid of you, lest indeed I have laboured in vain as to you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Be as I am, for I also am as ye, brethren, I beseech you: ye have not at all wronged me. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But ye know that in weakness of the flesh I announced the glad tidings to you at the first; <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and my temptation, which was in my flesh, ye did not slight nor reject with contempt; but ye received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> What then was your blessedness? for I bear you witness that, if possible, plucking out your own eyes ye would have given them to me. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So I have become your enemy in speaking the truth to you?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They are not rightly zealous after you, but desire to shut you out from us, that ye may be zealous after them. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But it is right to be zealous at all times in what is right, and not only when I am present with you--</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> my children, of whom I again travail in birth until Christ shall have been formed in you: <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and I should wish to be present with you now, and change my voice, for I am perplexed as to you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Tell me, ye who are desirous of being under law, do ye not listen to the law? <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> For it is written that Abraham had two sons; one of the maid servant, and one of the free woman. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he that was of the maid servant was born according to flesh, and he that was of the free woman through the promise. <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Which things have an allegorical sense; for these are two covenants: one from mount Sinai, gendering to bondage, which is Hagar. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For Hagar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and corresponds to Jerusalem which is now, for she is in bondage with her children; <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> but the Jerusalem above is free, which is our mother. <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For it is written, Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not; break out and cry, thou that travailest not; because the children of the desolate are more numerous than those of her that has a husband. <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But ye, brethren, after the pattern of Isaac, are children of promise. <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> But as then he that was born according to flesh persecuted him that was born according to Spirit, so also it is now. <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But what says the scripture? Cast out the maid servant and her son; for the son of the maid servant shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So then, brethren, we are not maid servant's children, but children of the free woman.</p>

</body>
</html>