<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> O senseless Galatians, who has bewitched you; to whom, as before your very eyes, Jesus Christ has been portrayed, crucified among you? <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> This only I wish to learn of you, Have ye received the Spirit on the principle of works of law, or of the report of faith? <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Are ye so senseless? having begun in Spirit, are ye going to be made perfect in flesh? <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Have ye suffered so many things in vain, if indeed also in vain? <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He therefore who ministers to you the Spirit, and works miracles among you, is it on the principle of works of law, or of the report of faith?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Even as Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Know then that they that are on the principle of faith, these are Abraham's sons; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the nations on the principle of faith, announced beforehand the glad tidings to Abraham: In thee all the nations shall be blessed. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So that they who are on the principle of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For as many as are on the principle of works of law are under curse. For it is written, Cursed is every one who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them; <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> but that by law no one is justified with God is evident, because The just shall live on the principle of faith; <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> but the law is not on the principle of faith; but, He that shall have done these things shall live by them. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Christ has redeemed us out of the curse of the law, having become a curse for us, (for it is written, Cursed is every one hanged upon a tree,) <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> that the blessing of Abraham might come to the nations in Christ Jesus, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Brethren, (I speak according to man,) even man's confirmed covenant no one sets aside, or adds other dispositions to. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But to Abraham were the promises addressed, and to his seed: he does not say, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed; which is Christ. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now I say this, A covenant confirmed beforehand by God, the law, which took place four hundred and thirty years after, does not annul, so as to make the promise of no effect. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For if the inheritance be on the principle of law, it is no longer on the principle of promise; but God gave it in grace to Abraham by promise.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Why then the law? It was added for the sake of transgressions, until the seed came to whom the promise was made, ordained through angels in the hand of a mediator. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But a mediator is not of one, but God is one. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Is then the law against the promises of God? Far be the thought. For if a law had been given able to quicken, then indeed righteousness were on the principle of law; <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> but the scripture has shut up all things under sin, that the promise, on the principle of faith of Jesus Christ, should be given to those that believe. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But before faith came, we were guarded under law, shut up to faith which was about to be revealed. <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> So that the law has been our tutor up to Christ, that we might be justified on the principle of faith. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But, faith having come, we are no longer under a tutor; <a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> for ye are all God's sons by faith in Christ Jesus. <a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For ye, as many as have been baptised unto Christ, have put on Christ. <a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> There is no Jew nor Greek; there is no bondman nor freeman; there is no male and female; for ye are all one in Christ Jesus: <a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> but if ye are of Christ, then ye are Abraham's seed, heirs according to promise.</p>

</body>
</html>