<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Galatians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Galatians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, apostle, not from men nor through man, but through Jesus Christ, and God the Father who raised him from among the dead, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and all the brethren with me, to the assemblies of Galatia. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace to you, and peace, from God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> who gave himself for our sins, so that he should deliver us out of the present evil world, according to the will of our God and Father; <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> to whom be glory to the ages of ages. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I wonder that ye thus quickly change, from him that called you in Christ's grace, to a different gospel, <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> which is not another one; but there are some that trouble you, and desire to pervert the glad tidings of the Christ. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But if even we or an angel out of heaven announce as glad tidings to you anything besides what we have announced as glad tidings to you, let him be accursed. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> As we have said before, now also again I say, If any one announce to you as glad tidings anything besides what ye have received, let him be accursed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For do I now seek to satisfy men or God? or do I seek to please men? If I were yet pleasing men, I were not Christ's bondman. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But I let you know, brethren, as to the glad tidings which were announced by me, that they are not according to man. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For neither did I receive them from man, neither was I taught them, but by revelation of Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For ye have heard what was my conversation formerly in Judaism, that I excessively persecuted the assembly of God, and ravaged it; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and advanced in Judaism beyond many my contemporaries in my nation, being exceedingly zealous of the doctrines of my fathers. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But when God, who set me apart even from my mother's womb, and called me by his grace, <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> was pleased to reveal his Son in me, that I may announce him as glad tidings among the nations, immediately I took not counsel with flesh and blood, <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> nor went I up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me; but I went to Arabia, and again returned to Damascus. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to make acquaintance with Peter, and I remained with him fifteen days; <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but I saw none other of the apostles, but James the brother of the Lord. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now what I write to you, behold, before God, I do not lie. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I was unknown personally to the assemblies of Judaea which are in Christ; <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> only they were hearing that he who persecuted us formerly now announces the glad tidings of the faith which formerly he ravaged: <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and they glorified God in me.</p>

</body>
</html>