<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ephesians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ephesians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be ye therefore imitators of God, as beloved children, <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and walk in love, even as the Christ loved us, and delivered himself up for us, an offering and sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling savour.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But fornication and all uncleanness or unbridled lust, let it not be even named among you, as it becomes saints; <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and filthiness and foolish talking, or jesting, which are not convenient; but rather thanksgiving. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For this ye are well informed of, knowing that no fornicator, or unclean person, or person of unbridled lust, who is an idolater, has inheritance in the kingdom of the Christ and God. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let no one deceive you with vain words, for on account of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Be not ye therefore fellow-partakers with them; <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> for ye were once darkness, but now light in the Lord; walk as children of light, <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (for the fruit of the light is in all goodness and righteousness and truth,) <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> proving what is agreeable to the Lord; <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and do not have fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather also reprove them, <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for the things that are done by them in secret it is shameful even to say. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But all things having their true character exposed by the light are made manifest; for that which makes everything manifest is light. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore he says, Wake up, thou that sleepest, and arise up from among the dead, and the Christ shall shine upon thee. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> See therefore how ye walk carefully, not as unwise but as wise, <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> redeeming the time, because the days are evil. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For this reason be not foolish, but understanding what is the will of the Lord. <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And be not drunk with wine, in which is debauchery; but be filled with the Spirit, <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and chanting with your heart to the Lord; <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> giving thanks at all times for all things to him who is God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> submitting yourselves to one another in the fear of Christ. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands, as to the Lord, <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> for a husband is head of the wife, as also the Christ is head of the assembly. He is Saviour of the body. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But even as the assembly is subjected to the Christ, so also wives to their own husbands in everything. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Husbands, love your own wives, even as the Christ also loved the assembly, and has delivered himself up for it, <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> in order that he might sanctify it, purifying it by the washing of water by the word, <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> that he might present the assembly to himself glorious, having no spot, or wrinkle, or any of such things; but that it might be holy and blameless. <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> So ought men also to love their own wives as their own bodies: he that loves his own wife loves himself. <a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For no one has ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, even as also the Christ the assembly: <a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> for we are members of his body; we are of his flesh, and of his bones. <a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Because of this a man shall leave his father and mother, and shall be united to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh. <a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> This mystery is great, but I speak as to Christ, and as to the assembly. <a id="c5_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But ye also, every one of you, let each so love his own wife as himself; but as to the wife I speak that she may fear the husband.</p>

</body>
</html>