<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ephesians 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ephesians 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is just. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Honour thy father and thy mother, which is the first commandment with a promise, <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest be long-lived on the earth. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And ye fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and admonition of the Lord. <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Bondmen, obey masters according to flesh, with fear and trembling, in simplicity of your heart as to the Christ; <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> not with eye-service as men-pleasers; but as bondmen of Christ, doing the will of God from the soul, <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> serving with good will as to the Lord, and not to men; <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> knowing that whatever good each shall do, this he shall receive of the Lord, whether bond or free. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And, masters, do the same things towards them, giving up threatening, knowing that both their and your Master is in heaven, and there is no acceptance of persons with him.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the rest, brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the might of his strength. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Put on the panoply of God, that ye may be able to stand against the artifices of the devil: <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> because our struggle is not against blood and flesh, but against principalities, against authorities, against the universal lords of this darkness, against spiritual power of wickedness in the heavenlies. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For this reason take to you the panoply of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and, having accomplished all things, to stand. <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Stand therefore, having girt about your loins with truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness, <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and shod your feet with the preparation of the glad tidings of peace: <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> besides all these, having taken the shield of faith with which ye will be able to quench all the inflamed darts of the wicked one. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Have also the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is God's word; <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> praying at all seasons, with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching unto this very thing with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and for me in order that utterance may be given to me in the opening of my mouth to make known with boldness the mystery of the glad tidings, <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for which I am an ambassador bound with a chain, that I may be bold in it as I ought to speak. <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But in order that ye also may know what concerns me, how I am getting on, Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make all things known to you; <a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> whom I have sent to you for this very thing, that ye may know of our affairs and that he may encourage your hearts. <a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Peace to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Grace with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in incorruption.</p>

</body>
</html>