<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ephesians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ephesians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I, the prisoner in the Lord, exhort you therefore to walk worthy of the calling wherewith ye have been called,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> with all lowliness and meekness, with long-suffering, bearing with one another in love; <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> using diligence to keep the unity of the Spirit in the uniting bond of peace. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> There is one body and one Spirit, as ye have been also called in one hope of your calling; <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> one Lord, one faith, one baptism; <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> one God and Father of all, who is over all, and through all, and in us all. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But to each one of us has been given grace according to the measure of the gift of the Christ. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wherefore he says, Having ascended up on high, he has led captivity captive, and has given gifts to men. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended into the lower parts of the earth? <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He that descended is the same who has also ascended up above all the heavens, that he might fill all things; <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and he has given some apostles, and some prophets, and some evangelists, and some shepherds and teachers, <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> for the perfecting of the saints; with a view to the work of the ministry, with a view to the edifying of the body of Christ; <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> until we all arrive at the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, at the full-grown man, at the measure of the stature of the fulness of the Christ; <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> in order that we may be no longer babes, tossed and carried about by every wind of that teaching which is in the sleight of men, in unprincipled cunning with a view to systematized error; <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> but, holding the truth in love, we may grow up to him in all things, who is the head, the Christ: <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> from whom the whole body, fitted together, and connected by every joint of supply, according to the working in its measure of each one part, works for itself the increase of the body to its self-building up in love.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that ye should no longer walk as the rest of the nations walk in the vanity of their mind, <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> being darkened in understanding, estranged from the life of God by reason of the ignorance which is in them, by reason of the hardness of their hearts, <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> who having cast off all feeling, have given themselves up to lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greedy unsatisfied lust. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But ye have not thus learnt the Christ, <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> if ye have heard him and been instructed in him according as the truth is in Jesus; <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> namely your having put off according to the former conversation the old man which corrupts itself according to the deceitful lusts; <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and being renewed in the spirit of your mind; <a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and your having put on the new man, which according to God is created in truthful righteousness and holiness. <a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Wherefore, having put off falsehood, speak truth every one with his neighbour, because we are members one of another. <a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Be angry, and do not sin; let not the sun set upon your wrath, <a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> neither give room for the devil. <a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Let the stealer steal no more, but rather let him toil, working what is honest with his hands, that he may have to distribute to him that has need. <a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Let no corrupt word go out of your mouth, but if there be any good one for needful edification, that it may give grace to those that hear it. <a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, with which ye have been sealed for the day of redemption. <a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Let all bitterness, and heat of passion, and wrath, and clamour, and injurious language, be removed from you, with all malice; <a id="c4_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and be to one another kind, compassionate, forgiving one another, so as God also in Christ has forgiven you.</p>

</body>
</html>