<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul and Timotheus, bondmen of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, with the overseers and ministers; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> grace to you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I thank my God for my whole remembrance of you, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> constantly in my every supplication, making the supplication for you all with joy, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> because of your fellowship with the gospel, from the first day until now; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> having confidence of this very thing, that he who has begun in you a good work will complete it unto Jesus Christ's day:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> as it is righteous for me to think this as to you all, because ye have me in your hearts, and that both in my bonds and in the defence and confirmation of the glad tidings ye are all participators in my grace. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For God is my witness how I long after you all in the bowels of Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in full knowledge and all intelligence, <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> that ye may judge of and approve the things that are more excellent, in order that ye may be pure and without offence for Christ's day, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> being complete as regards the fruit of righteousness, which is by Jesus Christ, to God's glory and praise.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But I would have you know, brethren, that the circumstances in which I am have turned out rather to the furtherance of the glad tidings, <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> so that my bonds have become manifest as being in Christ in all the praetorium and to all others; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and that the most of the brethren, trusting in the Lord through my bonds, dare more abundantly to speak the word of God fearlessly. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Some indeed also for envy and strife, but some also for good will, preach the Christ. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These indeed out of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the glad tidings; <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> but those out of contention, announce the Christ, not purely, supposing to arouse tribulation for my bonds. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What is it then? at any rate, in every way, whether in pretext or in truth, Christ is announced; and in this I rejoice, yea, also I will rejoice; <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> for I know that this shall turn out for me to salvation, through your supplication and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ; <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> according to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but in all boldness, as always, now also Christ shall be magnified in my body whether by life or by death.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For for me to live is Christ, and to die gain; <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> but if to live in flesh is my lot, this is for me worth the while: and what I shall choose I cannot tell. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But I am pressed by both, having the desire for departure and being with Christ, for it is very much better, <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but remaining in the flesh is more necessary for your sakes; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and having confidence of this, I know that I shall remain and abide along with you all, for your progress and joy in faith; <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> that your boasting may abound in Christ Jesus through me by my presence again with you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Only conduct yourselves worthily of the glad tidings of the Christ, in order that whether coming and seeing you, or absent, I may hear of what concerns you, that ye stand firm in one spirit, with one soul, labouring together in the same conflict with the faith of the glad tidings; <a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and not frightened in anything by the opposers, which is to them a demonstration of destruction, but of your salvation, and that from God; <a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> because to you has been given, as regards Christ, not only the believing on him but the suffering for him also, <a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> having the same conflict which ye have seen in me, and now hear of in me.</p>

</body>
</html>