<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> So that, my brethren, beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, thus stand fast in the Lord, beloved. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I exhort Euodia, and exhort Syntyche, to be of the same mind in the Lord; <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> yea, I ask thee also, true yokefellow, assist them, who have contended along with me in the glad tidings, with Clement also, and my other fellow-labourers, whose names are in the book of life. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rejoice in the Lord always: again I will say, Rejoice. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let your gentleness be known of all men. The Lord is near. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Be careful about nothing; but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God; <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the peace of God, which surpasses every understanding, shall guard your hearts and your thoughts by Christ Jesus. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For the rest, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are noble, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are amiable, whatsoever things areof good report; if there be any virtue and if any praise, think on these things. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> What ye have both learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, these things do; and the God of peace shall be with you.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now however at length ye have revived your thinking of me, though surely ye did also think of me, but lacked opportunity. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Not that I speak as regards privation, for as to me I have learnt in those circumstances in which I am, to be satisfied in myself. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. In everything and in all things I am initiated both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer privation. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I have strength for all things in him that gives me power. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But ye have done well in taking part in my affliction. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And know also ye, O Philippians, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I came out of Macedonia, no assembly communicated anything to me in the way of giving and receiving save ye alone; <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> for also in Thessalonica once and even twice ye sent to me for my need. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Not that I seek gift, but I seek fruit abounding to your account. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But I have all things in full supply and abound; I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things sent from you, an odour of sweet savour, an acceptable sacrifice, agreeable to God. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But my God shall abundantly supply all your need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But to our God and Father be glory to the ages of ages. Amen. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren who are with me salute you. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> All the saints salute you, and specially those of the household of Caesar. <a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>