<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If then there be any comfort in Christ, if any consolation of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and compassions, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> fulfil my joy, that ye may think the same thing, having the same love, joined in soul, thinking one thing; <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> let nothing be in the spirit of strife or vain glory, but, in lowliness of mind, each esteeming the other as more excellent than themselves; <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> regarding not each his own qualities, but each those of others also. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For let this mind be in you which was also in Christ Jesus; <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> who, subsisting in the form of God, did not esteem it an object of rapine to be on an equality with God; <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> but emptied himself, taking a bondman's form, taking his place in the likeness of men; <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and having been found in figure as a man, humbled himself, becoming obedient even unto death, and that the death of the cross. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Wherefore also God highly exalted him, and granted him a name, that which is above every name, <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of heavenly and earthly and infernal beings, <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to God the Father's glory.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So that, my beloved, even as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much rather in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for it is God who works in you both the willing and the working according to his good pleasure.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Do all things without murmurings and reasonings, <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> that ye may be harmless and simple, irreproachable children of God in the midst of a crooked and perverted generation; among whom ye appear as lights in the world, <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> holding forth the word of life, so as to be a boast for me in Christ's day, that I have not run in vain nor laboured in vain. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But if also I am poured out as a libation on the sacrifice and ministration of your faith, I rejoice, and rejoice in common with you all. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In like manner do ye also rejoice, and rejoice with me. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus to you shortly, that I also may be refreshed, knowing how ye get on. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For I have no one like-minded who will care with genuine feeling how ye get on. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For all seek their own things, not the things of Jesus Christ. <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But ye know the proof of him, that, as a child a father, he has served with me in the work of the glad tidings. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Him therefore I hope to send immediately, as soon as I shall see how it goes with me: <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but I trust in the Lord that I myself also shall soon come; <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow-workman and fellow-soldier, but your messenger and minister to my need, <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> since he had a longing desire after you all, and was distressed because ye had heard that he was sick; <a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> for he was also sick close to death, but God had mercy on him, and not indeed on him alone, but also on me, that I might not have sorrow upon sorrow. <a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I have sent him therefore the more diligently, that seeing him ye might again rejoice, and that I might be the less sorrowful. <a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Receive him therefore in the Lord with all joy, and hold such in honour; <a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> because for the sake of the work he drew near even to death, venturing his life that he might fill up what lacked in your ministration toward me.</p>

</body>
</html>