<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philippians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philippians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For the rest, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord: to write the same things to you, to me is not irksome, and for you safe. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> See to dogs, see to evil workmen, see to the concision. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we are the circumcision, who worship by the Spirit of God, and boast in Christ Jesus, and do not trust in flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Though I have my trust even in flesh; if any other think to trust in flesh, I rather: <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> as to circumcision, I received it the eighth day; of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, Hebrew of Hebrews; as to the law, a Pharisee; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> as to zeal, persecuting the assembly; as to righteousness which is in the law, found blameless; <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> but what things were gain to me these I counted, on account of Christ, loss. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But surely I count also all things to be loss on account of the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, on account of whom I have suffered the loss of all, and count them to be filth, that I may gain Christ;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and that I may be found in him, not having my righteousness, which would be on the principle of law, but that which is by faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God through faith, <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> to know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> if any way I arrive at the resurrection from among the dead. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Not that I have already obtained the prize, or am already perfected; but I pursue, if also I may get possession of it, seeing that also I have been taken possession of by Christ Jesus. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Brethren, I do not count to have got possession myself; but one thing--forgetting the things behind, and stretching out to the things before, <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I pursue, looking towards the goal, for the prize of the calling on high of God in Christ Jesus.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> As many therefore as are perfect, let us be thus minded; and if ye are any otherwise minded, this also God shall reveal to you. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But whereto we have attained, let us walk in the same steps.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Be imitators all together of me, brethren, and fix your eyes on those walking thus as you have us for a model; <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> (for many walk of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ: <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> whose end is destruction, whose god is the belly, and their glory in their shame, who mind earthly things:) <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for our commonwealth has its existence in the heavens, from which also we await the Lord Jesus Christ as Saviour, <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> who shall transform our body of humiliation into conformity to his body of glory, according to the working of the power which he has even to subdue all things to himself.</p>

</body>
</html>