<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Colossians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Colossians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If therefore ye have been raised with the Christ, seek the things which are above, where the Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God: <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> have your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on the earth; <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> for ye have died, and your life is hid with the Christ in God. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> When the Christ is manifested who is our life, then shall ye also be manifested with him in glory.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Put to death therefore your members which are upon the earth, fornication, uncleanness, vile passions, evil lust, and unbridled desire, which is idolatry. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> On account of which things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In which ye also once walked when ye lived in these things.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But now, put off, ye also, all these things, wrath, anger, malice, blasphemy, vile language out of your mouth. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Do not lie to one another, having put off the old man with his deeds, <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and having put on the new, renewed into full knowledge according to the image of him that has created him; <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> wherein there is not Greek and Jew, circumcision and uncircumcision, barbarian, Scythian, bondman, freeman; but Christ is everything, and in all.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of compassion, kindness, lowliness, meekness, longsuffering; <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any should have a complaint against any; even as the Christ has forgiven you, so also doye. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And to all these add love, which is the bond of perfectness. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And let the peace of Christ preside in your hearts, to which also ye have been called in one body, and be thankful. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let the word of the Christ dwell in you richly, in all wisdom teaching and admonishing one another, in psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to God. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And everything, whatever ye may do in word or in deed, do all things in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father by him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Wives, be subject to your husbands, as is fitting in the Lord. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well-pleasing in the Lord. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Fathers, do not vex your children, to the end that they be not disheartened. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Bondmen, obey in all things your masters according to flesh; not with eye-services, as men-pleasers, but in simplicity of heart, fearing the Lord. <a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Whatsoever ye do, labour at it heartily, as doing it to the Lord, and not to men; <a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the recompense of the inheritance; ye serve the Lord Christ. <a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For he that does a wrong shall receive the wrong he has done, and there is no respect of persons.</p>

</body>
</html>