<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Colossians 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Colossians 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Masters, give to bondmen what is just and fair, knowing that ye also have a Master in the heavens.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Persevere in prayer, watching in it with thanksgiving; <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> praying at the same time for us also, that God may open to us a door of the word to speak the mystery of Christ, on account of which also I am bound, <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to the end that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Walk in wisdom towards those without, redeeming opportunities. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let your word be always with grace, seasoned with salt, so as to know how ye ought to answer each one.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Tychicus, the beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow-bondman in the Lord, will make known to you all that concerns me; <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> whom I have sent to you for this very purpose, that he might know your state, and that he might encourage your hearts: <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> with Onesimus, the faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known to you everything here. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Aristarchus my fellow-captive salutes you, and Mark, Barnabas's cousin, concerning whom ye have received orders, (if he come to you, receive him,) <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and Jesus called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These are the only fellow-workers for the kingdom of God who have been a consolation to me. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Epaphras, who is one of you, the bondman of Christ Jesus, salutes you, always combating earnestly for you in prayers, to the end that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For I bear him witness that he labours much for you, and them in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Luke, the beloved physician, salutes you, and Demas. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Salute the brethren in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the assembly which is in his house. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when the letter has been read among you, cause that it be read also in the assembly of Laodiceans, and that ye also read that from Laodicea. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, to the end that thou fulfil it. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you.</p>

</body>
</html>