<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Thessalonians 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Thessalonians 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But concerning the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that ye should be written to, <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for ye know perfectly well yourselves, that the day of the Lord so comes as a thief by night. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> When they may say, Peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them, as travail upon her that is with child; and they shall in no wise escape. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that the day should overtake you as a thief: <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> for all ye are sons of light and sons of day; we are not of night nor of darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So then do not let us sleep as the rest do, but let us watch and be sober; <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for they that sleep sleep by night, and they that drink drink by night; <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but we being of the day, let us be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love, and as helmet the hope of salvation; <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> because God has not set us for wrath, but for obtaining salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> who has died for us, that whether we may be watching or sleep, we may live together with him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Wherefore encourage one another, and build up each one the other, even as also ye do. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But we beg you, brethren, to know those who labour among you, and take the lead among you in the Lord, and admonish you, <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and to regard them exceedingly in love on account of their work. Be in peace among yourselves. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But we exhort you, brethren, admonish the disorderly, comfort the faint-hearted, sustain the weak, be patient towards all. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> See that no one render to any evil for evil, but pursue always what is good towards one another and towards all;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> rejoice always; <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> pray unceasingly; <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> in everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus towards you; <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> quench not the Spirit; <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> do not lightly esteem prophecies; <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> but prove all things, hold fast the right; <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> hold aloof from every form of wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now the God of peace himself sanctify you wholly: and your whole spirit, and soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He is faithful who calls you, who will also perform it. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Brethren, pray for us. <a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Greet all the brethren with a holy kiss. <a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I adjure you by the Lord that the letter be read to all the holy brethren. <a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.</p>

</body>
</html>