<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Thessalonians 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Thessalonians 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For the rest, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may run and be glorified, even as also with you; <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and that we may be delivered from bad and evil men, for faith is not the portion of all. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But the Lord is faithful, who shall establish you and keep you from evil. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But we trust in the Lord as to you, that the things which we enjoin, ye both do and will do. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the patience of the Christ.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now we enjoin you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw from every brother walking disorderly and not according to the instruction which he received from us. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For ye know yourselves how ye ought to imitate us, because we have not walked disorderly among you; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> nor have we eaten bread from any one without cost; but in toil and hardship working night and day not to be chargeable to any one of you: <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> not that we have not the right, but that we might give ourselves as an example to you, in order to your imitating us. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For also when we were with you we enjoined you this, that if any man does not like to work, neither let him eat. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For we hear that there are some walking among you disorderly, not working at all, but busybodies. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now such we enjoin and exhort in the Lord Jesus Christ, that working quietly they eat their own bread. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But ye, brethren, do not faint in well-doing. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But if any one obey not our word by the letter, mark that man, and do not keep company with him, that he may be ashamed of himself; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and do not esteem him as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But the Lord of peace himself give you peace continually in every way. The Lord be with you all. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The salutation by the hand of me, Paul, which is the mark in every letter; so I write. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.</p>

</body>
</html>