<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Timothy 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Timothy 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let as many bondmen as are under yoke count their own masters worthy of all honour, that the name of God and the teaching be not blasphemed. <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brethren; but let them the rather serve them with subjection, because they are faithful and beloved, who profit by the good and ready service rendered. These things teach and exhort. <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If any one teach differently, and do not accede to sound words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the teaching which is according to piety, <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> he is puffed up, knowing nothing, but sick about questions and disputes of words, out of which arise envy, strife, injurious words, evil suspicions, <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> constant quarrellings of men corrupted in mind and destitute of the truth, holding gain to be the end of piety.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But piety with contentment is great gain. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For we have brought nothing into the world: it is manifest that neither can we carry anything out. <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But having sustenance and covering, we will be content with these. <a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and many unwise and hurtful lusts, which plunge men into destruction and ruin. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For the love of money is the root of every evil; which some having aspired after, have wandered from the faith, and pierced themselves with many sorrows. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But thou, O man of God, flee these things, and pursue righteousness, piety, faith, love, endurance, meekness of spirit. <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Strive earnestly in the good conflict of faith. Lay hold of eternal life, to which thou hast been called, and hast confessed the good confession before many witnesses.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I enjoin thee before God who preserves all things in life, and Christ Jesus who witnessed before Pontius Pilate the good confession, <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> that thou keep the commandment spotless, irreproachable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ; <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> which in its own time the blessed and only Ruler shall shew, the King of those that reign, and Lord of those that exercise lordship; <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> who only has immortality, dwelling in unapproachable light; whom no man has seen, nor is able to see; to whom be honour and eternal might. Amen. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Enjoin on those rich in the present age not to be high-minded, nor to trust on the uncertainty of riches; but in the God who affords us all things richly for our enjoyment; <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> to do good, to be rich in good works, to be liberal in distributing, disposed to communicate of their substance, <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> laying by for themselves a good foundation for the future, that they may lay hold of what is really life. <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> O Timotheus, keep the entrusted deposit, avoiding profane, vain babblings, and oppositions of false-named knowledge, <a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> of which some having made profession, have missed the faith. Grace be with thee.</p>

</body>
</html>