<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Timothy 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Timothy 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the command of God our Saviour, and of Christ Jesus our hope, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to Timotheus, my true child in faith: grace, mercy, peace, from God our Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Even as I begged thee to remain in Ephesus, when I was going to Macedonia, that thou mightest enjoin some not to teach other doctrines, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> nor to turn their minds to fables and interminable genealogies, which bring questionings rather than further God's dispensation, which is in faith.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But the end of what is enjoined is love out of a pure heart and a good conscience and unfeigned faith; <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> which things some having missed, have turned aside to vain discourse, <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> desiring to be law-teachers, not understanding either what they say or concerning what they so strenuously affirm. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now we know that the law is good if any one uses it lawfully, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> knowing this, that law has not its application to a righteous person, but to the lawless and insubordinate, to the impious and sinful, to the unholy and profane, to smiters of fathers and smiters of mothers; to murderers, <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> fornicators, sodomites, kidnappers, liars, perjurers; and if any other thing is opposed to sound teaching, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> according to the glad tidings of the glory of the blessed God, with which I have been entrusted.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has given me power, that he has counted me faithful, appointing to ministry him <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> who before was a blasphemer and persecutor, and an insolent overbearing man: but mercy was shewn me because I did it ignorantly, in unbelief. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But the grace of our Lord surpassingly over-abounded with faith and love, which is in Christ Jesus. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Faithful is the word, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the first. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But for this reason mercy was shewn me, that in me, the first, Jesus Christ might display the whole long-suffering, for a delineation of those about to believe on him to life eternal. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now to the King of the ages, the incorruptible, invisible, only God, honour and glory to the ages of ages. Amen.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> This charge, my child Timotheus, I commit to thee, according to the prophecies as to thee preceding, in order that thou mightest war by them the good warfare, <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> maintaining faith and a good conscience; which last some, having put away, have made shipwreck as to faith; <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have delivered to Satan, that they may be taught by discipline not to blaspheme.</p>

</body>
</html>