<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Timothy 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Timothy 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Rebuke not an elder sharply, but exhort him as a father, younger men as brethren, <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> elder women as mothers, younger women as sisters, with all purity.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Honour widows who are really widows; <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> but if any widow have children or descendants, let them learn first to be pious as regards their own house, and to render a return on their side to their parents; for this is acceptable in the sight of God. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now she who is a widow indeed, and is left alone, has put her hope in God, and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But she that lives in habits of self-indulgence is dead while living. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And these things enjoin, that they may be irreproachable. <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But if any one does not provide for his own, and specially for those of his house, he has denied the faith, and is worse than the unbeliever. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let a widow be put upon the list, being of not less than sixty years, having been wife of one man, <a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> borne witness to in good works, if she have brought up children, if she have exercised hospitality, if she have washed saints' feet, if she have imparted relief to the distressed, if she have diligently followed every good work. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But younger widows decline; for when they grow wanton against Christ, they desire to marry, <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> being guilty, because they have cast off their first faith. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And, at the same time, they learn also to be idle, going about to people's houses; and not only idle, but also gossipers and meddlers, speaking things not becoming. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> I will therefore that the younger marry, bear children, rule the house, give no occasion to the adversary in respect of reproach. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For already some have turned aside after Satan. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If any believing man or woman have widows, let them impart relief to them, and let not the assembly be charged, that it may impart relief to those that are widows indeed.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let the elders who take the lead among the saints well be esteemed worthy of double honour, specially those labouring in word and teaching; <a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for the scripture says, Thou shalt not muzzle an ox that treadeth out corn, and, The workman is worthy of his hire. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Against an elder receive not an accusation unless where there are two or three witnesses. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Those that sin convict before all, that the rest also may have fear. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> I testify before God and Christ Jesus and the elect angels, that thou keep these things without prejudice, doing nothing by favour. <a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Lay hands quickly on no man, nor partake in others' sins. Keep thyself pure. <a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Drink no longer only water, but use a little wine on account of thy stomach and thy frequent illnesses. <a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Of some men the sins are manifest beforehand, going before to judgment, and some also they follow after. <a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> In like manner good works also are manifest beforehand, and those that are otherwise cannot be hid.</p>

</body>
</html>