<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Thou therefore, my child, be strong in the grace which is in Christ Jesus. <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the things thou hast heard of me in the presence of many witnesses, these entrust to faithful men, such as shall be competent to instruct others also. <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Take thy share in suffering as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> No one going as a soldier entangles himself with the affairs of life, that he may please him who has enlisted him as a soldier. <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And if also any one contend in the games, he is not crowned unless he contend lawfully. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The husbandman must labour before partaking of the fruits. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Think of what I say, for the Lord will give thee understanding in all things.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Remember Jesus Christ raised from among the dead, of the seed of David, according to my glad tidings, <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> in which I suffer even unto bonds as an evil-doer: but the word of God is not bound. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For this cause I endure all things for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The word is faithful; for if we have died together with him, we shall also live together; <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> if we endure, we shall also reign together; if we deny, he also will deny us; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> if we are unfaithful, he abides faithful, for he cannot deny himself.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Of these things put in remembrance, testifying earnestly before the Lord not to have disputes of words, profitable for nothing, to the subversion of the hearers. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Strive diligently to present thyself approved to God, a workman that has not to be ashamed, cutting in a straight line the word of truth. <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But profane, vain babblings shun, for they will advance to greater impiety, <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and their word will spread as a gangrene; of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus; <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> men who as to the truth have gone astray, saying that the resurrection has taken place already; and overthrow the faith of some.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Yet the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, The Lord knows those that are his; and, Let every one who names the name of the Lord withdraw from iniquity. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But in a great house there are not only gold and silver vessels, but also wooden and earthen; and some to honour, and some to dishonour. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> If therefore one shall have purified himself from these, in separating himself from them, he shall be a vessel to honour, sanctified, serviceable to the Master, prepared for every good work.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But youthful lusts flee, and pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace, with those that call upon the Lord out of a pure heart. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But foolish and senseless questionings avoid, knowing that they beget contentions. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And a bondman of the Lord ought not to contend, but be gentle towards all; apt to teach; forbearing; <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> in meekness setting right those who oppose, if God perhaps may sometime give them repentance to acknowledgment of the truth, <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and that they may awake up out of the snare of the devil, who are taken by him, for his will.</p>

</body>
</html>