<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> I testify before God and Christ Jesus, who is about to judge living and dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom, <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> proclaim the word; be urgent in season and out of season, convict, rebuke, encourage, with all longsuffering and doctrine. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For the time shall be when they will not bear sound teaching; but according to their own lusts will heap up to themselves teachers, having an itching ear; <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and they will turn away their ear from the truth, and will have turned aside to fables. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But thou, be sober in all things, bear evils, do the work of an evangelist, fill up the full measure of thy ministry. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For I am already being poured out, and the time of my release is come. <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> I have combated the good combat, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Henceforth the crown of righteousness is laid up for me, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will render to me in that day; but not only to me, but also to all who love his appearing.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Use diligence to come to me quickly; <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for Demas has forsaken me, having loved the present age, and is gone to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Luke alone is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thyself, for he is serviceable to me for ministry. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The cloak which I left behind me in Troas at Carpus's, bring when thou comest, and the books, especially the parchments. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Alexander the smith did many evil things against me. The Lord will render to him according to his works. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Against whom be thou also on thy guard, for he has greatly withstood our words.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> At my first defence no man stood with me, but all deserted me. May it not be imputed to them. <a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the Lord stood with me, and gave me power, that through me the proclamation might be fully made, and all those of the nations should hear; and I was delivered out of the lion's mouth. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The Lord shall deliver me from every wicked work, and shall preserve me for his heavenly kingdom; to whom be glory for the ages of ages. Amen. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Erastus remained in Corinth, but Trophimus I left behind in Miletus sick. <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Use diligence to come before winter. Eubulus salutes thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and the brethren all. <a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you.</p>

</body>
</html>