<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Timothy 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Timothy 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, apostle of Jesus Christ by God's will, according to promise of life, the life which is in Christ Jesus, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to Timotheus, my beloved child: grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father, and Christ Jesus our Lord. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I am thankful to God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, how unceasingly I have the remembrance of thee in my supplications night and day, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> earnestly desiring to see thee, remembering thy tears, that I may be filled with joy; <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> calling to mind the unfeigned faith which has been in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and in thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For which cause I put thee in mind to rekindle the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For God has not given us a spirit of cowardice, but of power, and of love, and of wise discretion. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be not therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner; but suffer evil along with the glad tidings, according to the power of God; <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> who has saved us, and has called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the ages of time, <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> but has been made manifest now by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who has annulled death, and brought to light life and incorruptibility by the glad tidings; <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> to which I have been appointed a herald and apostle and teacher of the nations. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For which cause also I suffer these things; but I am not ashamed; for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep for that day the deposit I have entrusted to him. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Have an outline of sound words, which words thou hast heard of me, in faith and love which are in Christ Jesus. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Keep, by the Holy Spirit which dwells in us, the good deposit entrusted.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Thou knowest this, that all who are in Asia, of whom is Phygellus and Hermogenes, have turned away from me. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he has often refreshed me, and has not been ashamed of my chain; <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> but being in Rome sought me out very diligently, and found me-- <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> the Lord grant to him to find mercy from the Lord in that day--and how much service he rendered in Ephesus thou knowest best.</p>

</body>
</html>