<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, bondman of God, and apostle of Jesus Christ according to the faith of God's elect, and knowledge of the truth which is according to piety; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in the hope of eternal life, which God, who cannot lie, promised before the ages of time, <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> but has manifested in its own due season his word, in the proclamation with which I have been entrusted, according to the commandment of our Saviour God; <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to Titus, my own child according to the faith common to us: Grace and peace from God the Father, and Christ Jesus our Saviour.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For this cause I left thee in Crete, that thou mightest go on to set right what remained unordered, and establish elders in each city, as I had ordered thee:</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> if any one be free from all charge against him, husband of one wife, having believing children not accused of excess or unruly. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For the overseer must be free from all charge against him as God's steward; not headstrong, not passionate, not disorderly through wine, not a striker, not seeking gain by base means; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but hospitable, a lover of goodness, discreet, just, pious, temperate, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> clinging to the faithful word according to the doctrine taught, that he may be able both to encourage with sound teaching and refute gainsayers. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For there are many and disorderly vain speakers and deceivers of people's minds, specially those of the circumcision, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> who must have their mouths stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which ought not to be taught for the sake of base gain. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> One of themselves, a prophet of their own, has said, Cretans are always liars, evil wild beasts, lazy gluttons. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This testimony is true; for which cause rebuke them severely, that they may be sound in the faith, <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> not turning their minds to Jewish fables and commandments of men turning away from the truth. <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All things are pure to the pure; but to the defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure; but both their mind and their conscience are defiled. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> They profess to know God, but in works deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and found worthless as to every good work.</p>

</body>
</html>