<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Titus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Titus 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Put them in mind to be subject to rulers, to authorities, to be obedient to rule, to be ready to do every good work, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to speak evil of no one, not to be contentious, to be mild, shewing all meekness towards all men. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we were once ourselves also without intelligence, disobedient, wandering in error, serving various lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But when the kindness and love to man of our Saviour God appeared, <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> not on the principle of works which have been done in righteousness which we had done, but according to his own mercy he saved us through the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> which he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Saviour; <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> that, having been justified by his grace, we should become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The word is faithful, and I desire that thou insist strenuously on these things, that they who have believed God may take care to pay diligent attention to good works. These things are good and profitable to men.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But foolish questions, and genealogies, and strifes, and contentions about the law, shun; for they are unprofitable and vain. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> An heretical man after a first and second admonition have done with, <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> knowing that such a one is perverted, and sins, being self-condemned. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When I shall send Artemas to thee, or Tychicus, use diligence to come to me to Nicopolis; for I have decided to winter there. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Zenas the lawyer and Apollos set forward diligently on their way, that nothing may be lacking to them; <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and let ours also learn to apply themselves to good works for necessary wants, that they may not be unfruitful. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> All with me salute thee. Salute those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all.</p>

</body>
</html>