<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Philemon 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Philemon 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Paul, prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timotheus the brother, to Philemon the beloved and our fellow-workman, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and to the sister Apphia and to Archippus our fellow-soldier, and to the assembly which is in thine house. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I thank my God, always making mention of thee at my prayers, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> hearing of thy love and the faith which thou hast towards the Lord Jesus, and towards all the saints, <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> in such sort that thy participation in the faith should become operative in the acknowledgment of every good thing which is in us towards Christ Jesus. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For we have great thankfulness and encouragement through thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Wherefore having much boldness in Christ to enjoin thee what is fitting, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> for love's sake I rather exhort, being such a one as Paul the aged, and now also prisoner of Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I exhort thee for my child, whom I have begotten in my bonds, Onesimus, <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> once unserviceable to thee, but now serviceable to thee and to me: <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> whom I have sent back to thee: but do thou receive him, that is, my bowels: <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> whom I was desirous of keeping with myself, that for thee he might minister to me in the bonds of the glad tidings; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but I have wished to do nothing without thy mind, that thy good might not be as of necessity but of willingness: <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> for perhaps for this reason he has been separated from thee for a time, that thou mightest possess him fully for ever; <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> not any longer as a bondman, but above a bondman, a beloved brother, specially to me, and how much rather to thee, both in the flesh and in the Lord? <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If therefore thou holdest me to be a partner with thee, receive him as me; <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> but if he have wronged thee anything or owe anything to thee, put this to my account. <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I Paul have written it with mine own hand; I will repay it: that I say not to thee that thou owest even thine own self also to me. <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Yea, brother, I would have profit of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in Christ. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Being confident of thine obedience, I have written to thee, knowing that thou wilt do even more than I say. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But withal prepare me also a lodging; for I hope that I shall be granted to you through your prayers. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Epaphras salutes thee, my fellow-prisoner in Christ Jesus; <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow-workmen. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.</p>

</body>
</html>