<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our confession, Jesus, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> who is faithful to him that has constituted him, as Moses also in all his house. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For he has been counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by how much he that has built it has more honour than the house. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For every house is built by some one; but he who has built all things is God. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house, as a ministering servant, for a testimony of the things to be spoken after; <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but Christ, as Son over his house, whose house are we, if indeed we hold fast the boldness and the boast of hope firm to the end.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Wherefore, even as says the Holy Spirit, To-day if ye will hear his voice, <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness; <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> where your fathers tempted me, by proving me, and saw my works forty years. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Wherefore I was wroth with this generation, and said, They always err in heart; and they have not known my ways; <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> so I swore in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> See, brethren, lest there be in any one of you a wicked heart of unbelief, in turning away from the living God. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But encourage yourselves each day, as long as it is called To-day, that none of you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For we are become companions of the Christ if indeed we hold the beginning of the assurance firm to the end; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> in that it is said, To-day if ye will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts, as in the provocation; <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> (for who was it, who, having heard, provoked? but was it not all who came out of Egypt by Moses? <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And with whom was he wroth forty years? Was it not with those who had sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness? <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to those who had not hearkened to the word? <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And we see that they could not enter in on account of unbelief;)</p>

</body>
</html>