<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now faith is the substantiating of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For in the power of this the elders have obtained testimony. <a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> By faith we apprehend that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that that which is seen should not take its origin from things which appear.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> By faith Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained testimony of being righteous, God bearing testimony to his gifts, and by it, having died, he yet speaks. <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him; for before his translation he has the testimony that he had pleased God. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But without faith it is impossible to please him. For he that draws near to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them who seek him out. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> By faith, Noah, oracularly warned concerning things not yet seen, moved with fear, prepared an ark for the saving of his house; by which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is according to faith. <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> By faith Abraham, being called, obeyed to go out into the place which he was to receive for an inheritance, and went out, not knowing where he was going. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> By faith he sojourned as a stranger in the land of promise as a foreign country, having dwelt in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise; <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> for he waited for the city which has foundations, of which God is the artificer and constructor. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> By faith also Sarah herself received strength for the conception of seed, and that beyond a seasonable age; since she counted him faithful who promised. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore also there have been born of one, and that of one become dead, even as the stars of heaven in multitude, and as the countless sand which is by the sea shore. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> All these died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them from afar off and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and sojourners on the earth. <a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For they who say such things shew clearly that they seek their country. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And if they had called to mind that from whence they went out, they had had opportunity to have returned; <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> but now they seek a better, that is, a heavenly; wherefore God is not ashamed of them, to be called their God; for he has prepared for them a city. <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> By faith Abraham, when tried, offered up Isaac, and he who had received to himself the promises offered up his only begotten son, <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> as to whom it had been said, In Isaac shall thy seed be called: <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> counting that God was able to raise him even from among the dead, whence also he received him in a figure. <a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. <a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> By faith Jacob when dying blessed each of the sons of Joseph, and worshipped on the top of his staff. <a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> By faith Joseph when dying called to mind the going forth of the sons of Israel, and gave commandment concerning his bones. <a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> By faith Moses, being born, was hid three months by his parents, because they saw the child beautiful; and they did not fear the injunction of the king. <a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> By faith Moses, when he had become great, refused to be called son of Pharaoh's daughter; <a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> choosing rather to suffer affliction along with the people of God than to have the temporary pleasure of sin; <a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> esteeming the reproach of the Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt, for he had respect to the recompense. <a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> By faith he left Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king; for he persevered, as seeing him who is invisible. <a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> By faith he celebrated the passover and the sprinkling of the blood, that the destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them. <a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> By faith they passed through the Red sea as through dry land; of which the Egyptians having made trial were swallowed up. <a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> By faith the walls of Jericho fell, having been encircled for seven days. <a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> By faith Rahab the harlot did not perish along with the unbelieving, having received the spies in peace.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And what more do I say? For the time would fail me telling of Gideon, and Barak, and Samson, and Jephthah, and David and Samuel, and of the prophets: <a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> who by faith overcame kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped lions' mouths, <a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> quenched the power of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, became strong out of weakness, became mighty in war, made the armies of strangers give way. <a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Women received their dead again by resurrection; and others were tortured, not having accepted deliverance, that they might get a better resurrection; <a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and others underwent trial of mockings and scourgings, yea, and of bonds and imprisonment. <a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> They were stoned, were sawn asunder, were tempted, died by the death of the sword; they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins, destitute, afflicted, evil treated, <a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> (of whom the world was not worthy,) wandering in deserts and mountains, and in dens and caverns of the earth. <a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And these all, having obtained witness through faith, did not receive the promise, <a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> God having foreseen some better thing for us, that they should not be made perfect without us.</p>

</body>
</html>