<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left of entering into his rest, any one of you might seem to have failed of it. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For indeed we have had glad tidings presented to us, even as they also; but the word of the report did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in those who heard. <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For we enter into the rest who have believed; as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, If they shall enter into my rest; although the works had been completed from the foundation of the world. <a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For he has said somewhere of the seventh day thus, And God rested on the seventh day from all his works: <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and in this again, If they shall enter into my rest. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seeing therefore it remains that some enter into it, and those who first received the glad tidings did not enter in on account of not hearkening to the word, <a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> again he determines a certain day, saying, in David, 'To-day,' after so long a time; (according as it has been said before), To-day, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For if Jesus had brought them into rest, he would not have spoken afterwards about another day. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> There remains then a sabbatism to the people of God. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For he that has entered into his rest, he also has rested from his works, as God did from his own.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let us therefore use diligence to enter into that rest, that no one may fall after the same example of not hearkening to the word. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For the word of God is living and operative, and sharper than any two-edged sword, and penetrating to the division of soul and spirit, both of joints and marrow, and a discerner of the thoughts and intents of theheart. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And there is not a creature unapparent before him; but all things are naked and laid bare to his eyes, with whom we have to do. <a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Having therefore a great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast the confession. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For we have not a high priest not able to sympathise with our infirmities, but tempted in all things in like manner, sin apart. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let us approach therefore with boldness to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy, and find grace for seasonable help.</p>

</body>
</html>