<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now a summary of the things of which we are speaking is, We have such a one high priest who has sat down on the right hand of the throne of the greatness in the heavens; <a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> minister of the holy places and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord has pitched, and not man. <a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For every high priest is constituted for the offering both of gifts and sacrifices; whence it is needful that this one also should have something which he may offer. <a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> If then indeed he were upon earth, he would not even be a priest, there being those who offer the gifts according to the law, <a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> (who serve the representation and shadow of heavenly things, according as Moses was oracularly told when about to make the tabernacle; for See, saith He, that thou make all things according to the pattern which has been shewn to thee in the mountain.)</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But now he has got a more excellent ministry, by so much as he is mediator of a better covenant, which is established on the footing of better promises. <a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For if that first was faultless, place had not been sought for a second. <a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For finding fault, he says to them, Behold, days come, saith the Lord, and I will consummate a new covenant as regards the house of Israel, and as regards the house of Juda; <a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> not according to the covenant which I made to their fathers in the day of my taking their hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not continue in my covenant, and I did not regard them, saith theLord. <a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because this is the covenant that I will covenant to the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord: Giving my laws into their mind, I will write them also upon their hearts; and I will be to them for God, and they shall be to me for people. <a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And they shall not teach each his fellow-citizen, and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord; because all shall know me in themselves, from the little one among them unto the great among them. <a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because I will be merciful to their unrighteousnesses, and their sins and their lawlessnesses I will never remember any more. <a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> In that he says New, he has made the first old; but that which grows old and aged is near disappearing.</p>

</body>
</html>