<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For the law, having a shadow of the coming good things, not the image itself of the things, can never, by the same sacrifices which they offer continually yearly, perfect those who approach. <a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Since, would they not indeed have ceased being offered, on account of the worshippers once purged having no longer any conscience of sins? <a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But in these there is a calling to mind of sins yearly. <a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For blood of bulls and goats is incapable of taking away sins. <a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Wherefore coming into the world he says, Sacrifice and offering thou willedst not; but thou hast prepared me a body. <a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Thou tookest no pleasure in burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then I said, Lo, I come (in the roll of the book it is written of me) to do, O God, thy will. <a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Above, saying Sacrifices and offerings and burnt-offerings and sacrifices for sin thou willedst not, neither tookest pleasure in (which are offered according to the law); <a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> then he said, Lo, I come to do thy will. He takes away the first that he may establish the second; <a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> by which will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. <a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And every priest stands daily ministering, and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. <a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But he, having offered one sacrifice for sins, sat down in perpetuity at the right hand of God, <a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> waiting from henceforth until his enemies be set for the footstool of his feet. <a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For by one offering he has perfected in perpetuity the sanctified. <a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the Holy Spirit also bears us witness of it; for after what was said: <a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> This is the covenant which I will establish towards them after those days, saith the Lord: Giving my laws into their hearts, I will write them also in their understandings; <a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and their sins and their lawlessnesses I will never remember any more. <a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But where there is remission of these, there is no longer a sacrifice for sin.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Having therefore, brethren, boldness for entering into the holy of holies by the blood of Jesus, <a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> the new and living way which he has dedicated for us through the veil, that is, his flesh, <a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and having a great priest over the house of God, <a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> let us approach with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, sprinkled as to our hearts from a wicked conscience, and washed as to our body with pure water. <a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Let us hold fast the confession of the hope unwavering, (for he is faithful who has promised;) <a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and let us consider one another for provoking to love and good works; <a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the custom is with some; but encouraging one another, and by so much the more as ye see the day drawing near. <a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For where we sin wilfully after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains any sacrifice for sins, <a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> but a certain fearful expectation of judgment, and heat of fire about to devour the adversaries. <a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Any one that has disregarded Moses' law dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses: <a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> of how much worse punishment, think ye, shall he be judged worthy who has trodden under foot the Son of God, and esteemed the blood of the covenant, whereby he has been sanctified, common, and has insulted the Spirit of grace? <a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> For we know him that said, To me belongs vengeance; I will recompense, saith the Lord: and again, The Lord shall judge his people. <a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> It is a fearful thing falling into the hands of the living God. <a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But call to mind the earlier days in which, having been enlightened, ye endured much conflict of sufferings; <a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> on the one hand, when ye were made a spectacle both in reproaches and afflictions; and on the other, when ye became partakers with those who were passing through them. <a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> For ye both sympathised with prisoners and accepted with joy the plunder of your goods, knowing that ye have for yourselves a better substance, and an abiding one. <a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Cast not away therefore your confidence, which has great recompense. <a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> For ye have need of endurance in order that, having done the will of God, ye may receive the promise. <a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> For yet a very little while he that comes will come, and will not delay. <a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But the just shall live by faith; and, if he draw back, my soul does not take pleasure in him. <a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> But we are not drawers back to perdition, but of faith to saving the soul.</p>

</body>
</html>