<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Wherefore, leaving the word of the beginning of the Christ, let us go on to what belongs to full growth, not laying again a foundation of repentance from dead works and faith in God, <a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> of the doctrine of washings, and of imposition of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment; <a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and this will we do if God permit. <a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For it is impossible to renew again to repentance those once enlightened, and who have tasted of the heavenly gift, and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit, <a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and have tasted the good word of God, and the works of power of the age to come, <a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and have fallen away, crucifying for themselves as they do the Son of God, and making a show of him. <a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For ground which drinks the rain which comes often upon it, and produces useful herbs for those for whose sakes also it is tilled, partakes of blessing from God; <a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but bringing forth thorns and briars, it is found worthless and nigh to a curse, whose end is to be burned.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But we are persuaded concerning you, beloved, better things, and connected with salvation, even if we speak thus. <a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For God is not unrighteous to forget your work, and the love which ye have shewn to his name, having ministered to the saints, and still ministering. <a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But we desire earnestly that each one of you shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end; <a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> that ye be not sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience have been inheritors of the promises. <a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For God, having promised to Abraham, since he had no greater to swear by, swore by himself, <a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee; <a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and thus, having had long patience, he got the promise. <a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For men indeed swear by a greater, and with them the oath is a term to all dispute, as making matters sure. <a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Wherein God, willing to shew more abundantly to the heirs of the promise the unchangeableness of his purpose, intervened by an oath, <a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> that by two unchangeable things, in which it was impossible that God should lie, we might have a strong encouragement, who have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us, <a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> which we have as anchor of the soul, both secure and firm, and entering into that within the veil, <a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> where Jesus is entered as forerunner for us, become for ever a high priest according to the order of Melchisedec.</p>

</body>
</html>