<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> For every high priest taken from amongst men is established for men in things relating to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins; <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> being able to exercise forbearance towards the ignorant and erring, since he himself also is clothed with infirmity; <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and, on account of this infirmity, he ought, even as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And no one takes the honour to himself but as called by God, even as Aaron also. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus the Christ also has not glorified himself to be made a high priest; but he who had said to him, Thou art my Son, I have to-day begotten thee. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Even as also in another place he says, Thou art a priest for ever according to the order of Melchisedec. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Who in the days of his flesh, having offered up both supplications and entreaties to him who was able to save him out of death, with strong crying and tears; (and having been heard because of his piety;) <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> though he were Son, he learned obedience from the things which he suffered; <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and having been perfected, became to all them that obey him, author of eternal salvation;</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> addressed by God as high priest according to the order of Melchisedec. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Concerning whom we have much to say, and hard to be interpreted in speaking of it, since ye are become dull in hearing. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have again need that one should teach you what are the elements of the beginning of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk, and not of solid food. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For every one that partakes of milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe; <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but solid food belongs to full-grown men, who, on account of habit, have their senses exercised for distinguishing both good and evil.</p>

</body>
</html>