<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Let brotherly love abide. <a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Be not forgetful of hospitality; for by it some have unawares entertained angels. <a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Remember prisoners, as bound with them; those that are evil-treated, as being yourselves also in the body. <a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Let marriage be held every way in honour, and the bed be undefiled; for fornicators and adulterers will God judge. <a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let your conversation be without love of money, satisfied with your present circumstances; for he has said, I will not leave thee, neither will I forsake thee. <a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> So that, taking courage, we may say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not be afraid: what will man do unto me? <a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Remember your leaders who have spoken to you the word of God; and considering the issue of their conversation, imitate their faith. <a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, and to-day, and to the ages to come. <a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Be not carried away with various and strange doctrines; for it is good that the heart be confirmed with grace, not meats; those who have walked in which have not been profited by them. <a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> We have an altar of which they have no right to eat who serve the tabernacle; <a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for of those beasts whose blood is carried as sacrifices for sin into the holy of holies by the high priest, of these the bodies are burned outside the camp. <a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Wherefore also Jesus, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate: <a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> therefore let us go forth to him without the camp, bearing his reproach: <a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for we have not here an abiding city, but we seek the coming one. <a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise continually to God, that is, the fruit of the lips confessing his name. <a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But of doing good and communicating of your substance be not forgetful, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased. <a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Obey your leaders, and be submissive; for they watch over your souls as those that shall give account; that they may do this with joy, and not groaning, for this would be unprofitable for you.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Pray for us: for we persuade ourselves that we have a good conscience, in all things desirous to walk rightly. <a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But I much more beseech you to do this, that I may the more quickly be restored to you. <a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But the God of peace, who brought again from among the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, in the power of the blood of the eternal covenant, <a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> perfect you in every good work to the doing of his will, doing in you what is pleasing before him through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for the ages of ages. Amen. <a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But I beseech you, brethren, bear the word of exhortation, for it is but in few words that I have written to you. <a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Know that our brother Timotheus is set at liberty; with whom, if he should come soon, I will see you. <a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Salute all your leaders, and all the saints. They from Italy salute you. <a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Grace be with you all. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>