<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Hebrews 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Hebrews 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> God having spoken in many parts and in many ways formerly to the fathers in the prophets, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> at the end of these days has spoken to us in the person of the Son, whom he has established heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds; <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> who being the effulgence of his glory and the expression of his substance, and upholding all things by the word of his power, having made by himself the purification of sins, set himself down on the right hand of the greatness on high,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> taking a place by so much better than the angels, as he inherits a name more excellent than they. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For to which of the angels said he ever, Thou art my Son: this day have I begotten thee? and again, I will be to him for father, and he shall be to me for son? <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and again, when he brings in the firstborn into the habitable world, he says, And let all God's angels worship him. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And as to the angels he says, Who makes his angels spirits and his ministers a flame of fire; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but as to the Son, Thy throne, O God, is to the age of the age, and a sceptre of uprightness is the sceptre of thy kingdom. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Thou hast loved righteousness and hast hated lawlessness; therefore God, thy God, has anointed thee with oil of gladness above thy companions. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And, Thou in the beginning, Lord, hast founded the earth, and works of thy hands are the heavens. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They shall perish, but thou continuest still; and they all shall grow old as a garment, <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and as a covering shalt thou roll them up, and they shall be changed; but thou art the Same, and thy years shall not fail. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But as to which of the angels said he ever, Sit at my right hand until I put thine enemies as footstool of thy feet? <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Are they not all ministering spirits, sent out for service on account of those who shall inherit salvation?</p>

</body>
</html>