<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Be not many teachers, my brethren, knowing that we shall receive greater judgment. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For we all often offend. If any one offend not in word, he is a perfect man, able to bridle the whole body too. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Behold, we put the bits in the mouths of the horses, that they may obey us, and we turn round their whole bodies. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Behold also the ships, which are so great, and driven by violent winds, are turned about by a very small rudder, wherever the pleasure of the helmsman will. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Thus also the tongue is a little member, and boasts great things. See how little a fire, how large a wood it kindles! <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the tongue is fire, the world of unrighteousness; the tongue is set in our members, the defiler of the whole body, and which sets fire to the course of nature, and is set on fire of hell. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For every species both of beasts and of birds, both of creeping things and of sea animals, is tamed and has been tamed by the human species; <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> but the tongue can no one among men tame; it is an unsettled evil, full of death-bringing poison. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therewith bless we the Lord and Father, and therewith curse we men made after the likeness of God. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Out of the same mouth goes forth blessing and cursing. It is not right, my brethren, that these things should be thus. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Does the fountain, out of the same opening, pour forth sweet and bitter? <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Can, my brethren, a fig produce olives, or a vine figs? Neither can salt water make sweet water.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who is wise and understanding among you; let him shew out of a good conversation his works in meekness of wisdom; <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but if ye have bitter emulation and strife in your hearts, do not boast and lie against the truth. <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> This is not the wisdom which comes down from above, but earthly, natural, devilish. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For where emulation and strife are, there is disorder and every evil thing. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But the wisdom from above first is pure, then peaceful, gentle, yielding, full of mercy and good fruits, unquestioning, unfeigned. <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the fruit of righteousness in peace is sown for them that make peace.</p>

</body>
</html>