<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> James, bondman of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are in the dispersion, greeting.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Count it all joy, my brethren, when ye fall into various temptations, <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> knowing that the proving of your faith works endurance. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But let endurance have its perfect work, that ye may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But if any one of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who gives to all freely and reproaches not, and it shall be given to him: <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> but let him ask in faith, nothing doubting. For he that doubts is like a wave of the sea driven by the wind and tossed about; <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for let not that man think that he shall receive anything from the Lord; <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> he is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But let the brother of low degree glory in his elevation, <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and the rich in his humiliation, because as the grass's flower he will pass away. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For the sun has risen with its burning heat, and has withered the grass, and its flower has fallen, and the comeliness of its look has perished: thus the rich also shall wither in his goings. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Blessed is the man who endures temptation; for, having been proved, he shall receive the crown of life, which He has promised to them that love him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let no man, being tempted, say, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted by evil things, and himself tempts no one. <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But every one is tempted, drawn away, and enticed by his own lust; <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> then lust, having conceived, gives birth to sin; but sin fully completed brings forth death. <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Do not err, my beloved brethren. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Every good gift and every perfect gift comes down from above, from the Father of lights, with whom is no variation nor shadow of turning. <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> According to his own will begat he us by the word of truth, that we should be a certain first-fruits of his creatures.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So that, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath; <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> for man's wrath does not work God's righteousness. <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Wherefore, laying aside all filthiness and abounding of wickedness, accept with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, beguiling yourselves. <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like to a man considering his natural face in a mirror: <a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> for he has considered himself and is gone away, and straightway he has forgotten what he was like. <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But he that fixes his view on the perfect law, that of liberty, and abides in it, being not a forgetful hearer but a doer of the work, he shall be blessed in his doing. <a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If any one think himself to be religious, not bridling his tongue, but deceiving his heart, this man's religion is vain. <a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Pure and undefiled religion before God and the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, to keep oneself unspotted from the world.</p>

</body>
</html>