<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>James 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>James 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> My brethren, do not have the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, Lord of glory, with respect of persons: <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for if there come unto your synagogue a man with a gold ring in splendid apparel, and a poor man also come in in vile apparel, <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and ye look upon him who wears the splendid apparel, and say, Do thou sit here well, and say to the poor, Do thou stand there, or sit here under my footstool: <a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> have ye not made a difference among yourselves, and become judges having evil thoughts? <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Hear, my beloved brethren: Has not God chosen the poor as to the world, rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to them that love him? <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But ye have despised the poor man. Do not the rich oppress you, and do notthey drag you before the tribunals? <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And do notthey blaspheme the excellent name which has been called upon you?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If indeed ye keep the royal law according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself, ye do well. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But if ye have respect of persons, ye commit sin, being convicted by the law as transgressors. <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For whoever shall keep the whole law and shall offend in one point, he has come under the guilt of breaking all. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he who said, Thou shalt not commit adultery, said also, Thou shalt not kill. Now if thou dost not commit adultery, but killest, thou art become transgressor of the law. <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So speak ye, and so act, as those that are to be judged by the law of liberty; <a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> for judgment will be without mercy to him that has shewn no mercy. Mercy glories over judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> What is the profit, my brethren, if any one say he have faith, but have not works? can faith save him? <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now if a brother or a sister is naked and destitute of daily food, <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and one from amongst you say to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled; but give not to them the needful things for the body, what is the profit? <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> So also faith, if it have not works, is dead by itself. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But some one will say, Thou hast faith and I have works. Shew me thy faith without works, and I from my works will shew thee my faith. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Thou believest that God is one. Thou doest well. The demons even believe, and tremble. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Thou seest that faith wrought with his works, and that by works faith was perfected. <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the scripture was fulfilled which says, Abraham believed God, and it was reckoned to him as righteousness, and he was called Friend of God. <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Ye see that a man is justified on the principle of works, and not on the principle of faith only. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But was not in like manner also Rahab the harlot justified on the principle of works, when she had received the messengers and put them forth by another way? <a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> For as the body without a spirit is dead, so also faith without works is dead.</p>

</body>
</html>