<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elders which are among you I exhort, who am their fellow-elder and witness of the sufferings of the Christ, who also am partaker of the glory about to be revealed: <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> shepherd the flock of God which is among you, exercising oversight, not by necessity, but willingly; not for base gain, but readily; <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> not as lording it over your possessions, but being models for the flock. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the chief shepherd is manifested ye shall receive the unfading crown of glory.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Likewise ye younger, be subject to the elder, and all of you bind on humility towards one another; for God sets himself against the proud, but to the humble gives grace. <a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in the due time; <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> having cast all your care upon him, for he cares about you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Be vigilant, watch. Your adversary the devil as a roaring lion walks about seeking whom he may devour. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whom resist, stedfast in faith, knowing that the selfsame sufferings are accomplished in your brotherhood which is in the world.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the God of all grace who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ Jesus, when ye have suffered for a little while, himself shall make perfect, stablish, strengthen, ground: <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> to him be the glory and the might for the ages of the ages. Amen. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By Silvanus, the faithful brother, as I suppose, I have written to you briefly; exhorting and testifying that this is the true grace of God in which ye stand. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> She that is elected with you in Babylon salutes you, and Marcus my son. <a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Salute one another with a kiss of love. Peace be with you all who are in Christ.</p>

</body>
</html>