<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Peter, apostle of Jesus Christ, to the sojourners of the dispersion of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, by sanctification of the Spirit, unto the obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace to you and peace be multiplied.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, according to his great mercy, has begotten us again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from among the dead, <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> to an incorruptible and undefiled and unfading inheritance, reserved in the heavens for you, <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> who are kept guarded by the power of God through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Wherein ye exult, for a little while at present, if needed, put to grief by various trials, <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> that the proving of your faith, much more precious than of gold which perishes, though it be proved by fire, be found to praise and glory and honour in the revelation of Jesus Christ: <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> whom, having not seen, ye love; on whom though not now looking, but believing, ye exult with joy unspeakable and filled with the glory, <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> receiving the end of your faith, the salvation of your souls.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Concerning which salvation prophets, who have prophesied of the grace towards you, sought out and searched out; <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> searching what, or what manner of time, the Spirit of Christ which was in them pointed out, testifying before of the sufferings which belonged to Christ, and the glories after these. <a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> To whom it was revealed, that not to themselves but to you they ministered those things, which have now been announced to you by those who have declared to you the glad tidings by theHoly Spirit, sent from heaven, which angels desire to look into.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Wherefore, having girded up the loins of your mind, be sober and hope with perfect stedfastness in the grace which will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> as children of obedience, not conformed to your former lusts in your ignorance; <a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> but as he who has called you is holy, be ye also holy in all your conversation; <a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. <a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And if ye invoke as Father him who, without regard of persons, judges according to the work of each, pass your time of sojourn in fear, <a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> knowing that ye have been redeemed, not by corruptible things, as silver or gold, from your vain conversation handed down from your fathers, <a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> but by precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, the blood of Christ, <a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> foreknown indeed before the foundation of the world, but who has been manifested at the end of times for your sakes, <a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> who by him do believe on God, who has raised him from among the dead and given him glory, that your faith and hope should be in God. <a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Having purified your souls by obedience to the truth to unfeigned brotherly love, love one another out of a pure heart fervently; <a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the living and abiding word of God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Because all flesh is as grass, and all its glory as the flower of grass. The grass has withered and its flower has fallen; <a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> but the word of the Lord abides for eternity. But this is the word which in the glad tidings is preached to you.</p>

</body>
</html>