<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Peter 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Peter 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Laying aside therefore all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envyings and all evil speakings, <a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> as newborn babes desire earnestly the pure mental milk of the word, that by it ye may grow up to salvation, <a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> if indeed ye have tasted that the Lord is good.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> To whom coming, a living stone, cast away indeed as worthless by men, but with God chosen, precious, <a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> yourselves also, as living stones, are being built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. <a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Because it is contained in the scripture: Behold, I lay in Zion a corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believes on him shall not be put to shame. <a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> To you therefore who believe is the preciousness; but to the disobedient, the stone which the builders cast away as worthless, this is become head of the corner, <a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and a stone of stumbling and rock of offence; who stumble at the word, being disobedient to which also they have been appointed. <a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But ye are a chosen race, a kingly priesthood, a holy nation, a people for a possession, that ye might set forth the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness to his wonderful light; <a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> who once were not a people, but now God's people; who were not enjoying mercy, but now have found mercy. <a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Beloved, I exhort you, as strangers and sojourners, to abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul; <a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that as to that in which they speak against you as evildoers, they may through your good works, themselves witnessing them, glorify God in theday of visitation.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Be in subjection therefore to every human institution for the Lord's sake; whether to the king as supreme, <a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> or to rulers as sent by him, for vengeance on evildoers, and praise to them that do well. <a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Because so is the will of God, that by well-doing ye put to silence the ignorance of senseless men; <a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> as free, and not as having liberty as a cloak of malice, but as God's bondmen. <a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Shew honour to all, love the brotherhood, fear God, honour the king. <a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Servants, be subject with all fear to your masters, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the ill-tempered. <a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For this is acceptable, if one, for conscience sake towards God, endure griefs, suffering unjustly. <a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For what glory is it, if sinning and being buffeted ye shall bear it? but if, doing good and suffering, ye shall bear it, this is acceptable with God. <a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For to this have ye been called; for Christ also has suffered for you, leaving you a model that ye should follow in his steps: <a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth; <a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> who, when reviled, reviled not again; when suffering, threatened not; but gave himself over into the hands of him who judges righteously; <a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> who himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, in order that, being dead to sins, we may live to righteousness: by whose stripes ye have been healed. <a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For ye were going astray as sheep, but have now returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls.</p>

</body>
</html>