<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Peter 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Peter 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This, a second letter, beloved, I already write to you, in both which I stir up, in the way of putting you in remembrance, your pure mind, <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> to be mindful of the words spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandment of the Lord and Saviour by your apostles;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> knowing this first, that there shall come at the close of the days mockers with mocking, walking according to their own lusts, <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? for from the time the fathers fell asleep all things remain thus from the beginning of the creation. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For this is hidden from them through their own wilfulness, that heavens were of old, and an earth, having its subsistence out of water and in water, by the word of God, <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> through which waters the then world, deluged with water, perished. <a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But the present heavens and the earth by his word are laid up in store, kept for fire unto a day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But let not this one thing be hidden from you, beloved, that one day with the Lord is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The Lord does not delay his promise, as some account of delay, but is longsuffering towards you, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But the day of the Lord will come as a thief, in which the heavens will pass away with a rushing noise, and the elements, burning with heat, shall be dissolved, and the earth and the works in it shall be burnt up.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All these things then being to be dissolved, what ought ye to be in holy conversation and godliness, <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, by reason of which the heavens, being on fire, shall be dissolved, and the elements, burning with heat, shall melt? <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But, according to his promise, we wait for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwells righteousness. <a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Wherefore, beloved, as ye wait for these things, be diligent to be found of him in peace, without spot and blameless; <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and account the longsuffering of our Lord to be salvation; according as our beloved brother Paul also has written to you according to the wisdom given to him, <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> as also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things; among which some things are hard to be understood, which the untaught and ill-established wrest, as also the other scriptures, to their own destruction. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Ye therefore, beloved, knowing these things before, take care lest, being led away along with the error of the wicked, ye should fall from your own stedfastness: <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> but grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen.</p>

</body>
</html>