<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> That which was from the beginning, that which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes; that which we contemplated, and our hands handled, concerning the word of life; <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> (and the life has been manifested, and we have seen, and bear witness, and report to you the eternal life, which was with the Father, and has been manifested to us:) <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> that which we have seen and heard we report to you, that ye also may have fellowship with us; and our fellowship is indeed with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And these things write we to you that your joy may be full.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And this is the message which we have heard from him, and declare to you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not practise the truth. <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanses us from all sin.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins, and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.</p>

</body>
</html>