<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 John 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 John 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Beloved, believe not every spirit, but prove the spirits, if they are of God; because many false prophets are gone out into the world. <a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hereby ye know the Spirit of God: every spirit which confesses Jesus Christ come in flesh is of God; <a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and every spirit which does not confess Jesus Christ come in flesh is not of God: and this is that power of the antichrist, of which ye have heard that it comes, and now it is already in the world.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Ye are of God, children, and have overcome them, because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. <a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They are of the world; for this reason they speak as of the world, and the world hears them. <a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> We are of God; he that knows God hears us; he who is not of God does not hear us. From this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Beloved, let us love one another; because love is of God, and every one that loves has been begotten of God, and knows God. <a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He that loves not has not known God; for God is love. <a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Herein as to us has been manifested the love of God, that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. <a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son a propitiation for our sins. <a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Beloved, if God has so loved us, we also ought to love one another. <a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> No one has seen God at any time: if we love one another, God abides in us, and his love is perfected in us. <a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Hereby we know that we abide in him and he in us, that he has given to us of his Spirit.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And we have seen, and testify, that the Father has sent the Son as Saviour of the world. <a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God. <a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And we have known and have believed the love which God has to us. God is love, and he that abides in love abides in God, and God in him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Herein has love been perfected with us that we may have boldness in the day of judgment, that even as he is, we also are in this world. <a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There is no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear; for fear has torment, and he that fears has not been made perfect in love. <a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> We love because he has first loved us. <a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If any one say, I love God, and hate his brother, he is a liar: for he that loves not his brother whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he has not seen? <a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And this commandment have we from him, That he that loves God love also his brother.</p>

</body>
</html>