<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 John 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 John 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Every one that believes that Jesus is the Christ is begotten of God; and every one that loves him that has begotten loves also him that is begotten of him. <a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Hereby know we that we love the children of God, when we love God and keep his commandments. <a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments; and his commandments are not grievous. <a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For all that has been begotten of God gets the victory over the world; and this is the victory which has gotten the victory over the world, our faith. <a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who is he that gets the victory over the world, but he that believes that Jesus is the Son of God?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> This is he that came by water and blood, Jesus the Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that bears witness, for the Spirit is the truth. <a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For they that bear witness are three: <a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> the Spirit, and the water, and the blood; and the three agree in one. <a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater. For this is the witness of God which he has witnessed concerning his Son.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He that believes on the Son of God has the witness in himself; he that does not believe God has made him a liar, because he has not believed in the witness which God has witnessed concerning his Son. <a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And this is the witness, that God has given to us eternal life; and this life is in his Son. <a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He that has the Son has life: he that has not the Son of God has not life. <a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These things have I written to you that ye may know that ye have eternal life who believe on the name of the Son of God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And this is the boldness which we have towards him, that if we ask him anything according to his will he hears us. <a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And if we know that he hears us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions which we have asked of him. <a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If any one see his brother sinning a sin not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life, for those that do not sin unto death. There is a sin to death: I do not say of that that he should make a request. <a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Every unrighteousness is sin; and there is a sin not to death.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> We know that every one begotten of God does not sin, but he that has been begotten of God keeps himself, and the wicked one does not touch him. <a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> We know that we are of God, and the whole world lies in the wicked one. <a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And we know that the Son of God has come, and has given us an understanding that we should know him that is true; and we are in him that is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. <a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Children, keep yourselves from idols.</p>

</body>
</html>