<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elder to the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not I only but also all who have known the truth, <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> for the truth's sake which abides in us and shall be with us to eternity. <a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Grace shall be with you, mercy, peace from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I rejoiced greatly that I have found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received commandment from the Father.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And now I beseech thee, lady, not as writing to thee a new commandment, but that which we have had from the beginning, that we should love one another. <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And this is love, that we should walk according to his commandments. This is the commandment, according as ye have heard from the beginning, that ye might walk in it.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> For many deceivers have gone out into the world, they who do not confess Jesus Christ coming in flesh--this is the deceiver and the antichrist. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> See to yourselves, that we may not lose what we have wrought, but may receive full wages. <a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Whosoever goes forward and abides not in the doctrine of the Christ has not God. He that abides in the doctrine, he has both the Father and the Son.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> If any one come to you and bring not this doctrine, do not receive him into the house, and greet him not; <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> for he who greets him partakes in his wicked works.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Having many things to write to you, I would not with paper and ink; but hope to come to you, and to speak mouth to mouth, that our joy may be full. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The children of thine elect sister greet thee.</p>

</body>
</html>