<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>3 John 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>3 John 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The elder to the beloved Gaius, whom I love in truth. <a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Beloved, I desire that in all things thou shouldest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospers.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For I rejoiced exceedingly when the brethren came and bore testimony to thy holding fast the truth, even as thou walkest in truth. <a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I have no greater joy than these things that I hear of my children walking in the truth. <a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Beloved, thou doest faithfully in whatever thou mayest have wrought towards the brethren and that strangers, <a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> (who have witnessed of thy love before the assembly,) in setting forward whom on their journey worthily of God, thou wilt do well; <a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> for for the name have they gone forth, taking nothing of those of the nations. <a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> We therefore ought to receive such, that we may be fellow-workers with the truth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I wrote something to the assembly; but Diotrephes, who loves to have the first place among them, receives us not. <a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For this reason, if I come, I will bring to remembrance his works which he does, babbling against us with wicked words; and not content with these, neither does he himself receive the brethren; and those who would he prevents, and casts them out of the assembly. <a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Beloved, do not imitate what is evil, but what is good. He that does good is of God. He that does evil has not seen God.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Demetrius has witness borne to him by all, and by the truth itself; and we also bear witness, and thou knowest that our witness is true. <a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I had many things to write to thee, but I will not with ink and pen write to thee; <a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> but I hope soon to see thee, and we will speak mouth to mouth. Peace be to thee. The friends greet thee. Greet the friends by name.</p>

</body>
</html>