<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And there was given to me a reed like a staff, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship in it. <a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the court which is without the temple cast out, and measure it not; because it has been given up to the nations, and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty-two months.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And I will give power to my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and sixty days, clothed in sackcloth. <a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> These are the two olive trees and the two lamps which stand before the Lord of the earth; <a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and if any one wills to injure them, fire goes out of their mouth, and devours their enemies. And if any one wills to injure them, thus must he be killed. <a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> These have power to shut the heaven that no rain may fall during the days of their prophecy; and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to smite the earth as often as they will with every plague. <a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when they shall have completed their testimony, the beast who comes up out of the abyss shall make war with them, and shall conquer them, and shall kill them: <a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and their body shall be on the street of the great city, which is called spiritually Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified. <a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And men of the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations see their body three days and a half, and they do not suffer their bodies to be put into a sepulchre. <a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they that dwell upon the earth rejoice over them, and are full of delight, and shall send gifts one to another, because these, the two prophets, tormented them that dwell upon the earth. <a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And after the three days and a half the spirit of life from God came into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon those beholding them. <a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And I heard a great voice out of the heaven saying to them, Come up here; and they went up to the heaven in the cloud, and their enemies beheld them. <a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth of the city fell, and seven thousand names of men were slain in the earthquake. And the remnant were filled with fear, and gave glory to the God of the heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The second woe has passed; behold, the third woe comes quickly. <a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the seventh angel sounded his trumpet: and there were great voices in the heaven, saying, The kingdom of the world of our Lord and of his Christ is come, and he shall reign to the ages of ages. <a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the twenty-four elders, who sit on their thrones before God, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God, <a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> saying, We give thee thanks, Lord God Almighty, He who is, and who was, that thou hast taken thy great power and hast reigned. <a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the nations have been full of wrath, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead to be judged, and to give the recompense to thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and to those who fear thy name, small and great; and to destroy those that destroy the earth. <a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the temple of God in the heaven was opened, and the ark of his covenant was seen in his temple: and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunders, and an earthquake, and great hail.</p>

</body>
</html>