<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And he shewed me a river of water of life, bright as crystal, going out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. <a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> In the midst of its street, and of the river, on this side and on that side, the tree of life, producing twelve fruits, in each month yielding its fruit; and the leaves of the tree for healing of the nations. <a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And no curse shall be any more; and the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him, <a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and they shall see his face; and his name is on their foreheads. <a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And night shall not be any more, and no need of a lamp, and light of the sun; for the Lord God shall shine upon them, and they shall reign to the ages of ages.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said to me, These words are faithful and true; and the Lord God of the spirits of the prophets has sent his angel to shew to his bondmen the things which must soon come to pass. <a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And behold, I come quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book. <a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I, John, was he who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to do homage before the feet of the angel who shewed me these things. <a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he says to me, See thou do it not. I am thy fellow-bondman, and the fellow-bondman of thy brethren the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book. Do homage to God. <a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he says to me, Seal not the words of the prophecy of this book. The time is near. <a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Let him that does unrighteously do unrighteously still; and let the filthy make himself filthy still; and let him that is righteous practise righteousness still; and he that is holy, let him be sanctified still. <a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, I come quickly, and my reward with me, to render to every one as his work shall be. <a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. <a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Blessed are they that wash their robes, that they may have right to the tree of life, and that they should go in by the gates into the city. <a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Without are the dogs, and the sorcerers, and the fornicators, and the murderers, and the idolaters, and every one that loves and makes a lie. <a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify these things to you in the assemblies. I am the root and offspring of David, the bright and morning star. <a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that hears say, Come. And let him that is athirst come; he that will, let him take the water of life freely. <a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I testify to every one who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, If any one shall add to these things, God shall add to him the plagues which are written in this book. <a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And if any one take from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part from the tree of life, and out of the holy city, which are written in this book.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He that testifies these things says, Yea, I come quickly. Amen; come, Lord Jesus. <a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with all the saints.</p>

</body>
</html>