<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And one of the seven angels, which had the seven bowls, came and spoke with me, saying, Come here, I will shew thee the sentence of the great harlot who sits upon the many waters; <a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> with whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication; and they that dwell on the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication. <a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he carried me away in spirit to a desert; and I saw a woman sitting upon a scarlet beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. <a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the woman was clothed in purple and scarlet, and had ornaments of gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and the unclean things of her fornication; <a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and upon her forehead a name written, Mystery, great Babylon, the mother of the harlots, and of the abominations of the earth. <a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the witnesses of Jesus. And I wondered, seeing her, with great wonder.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the angel said to me, Why hast thou wondered? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast which carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns. <a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The beast which thou sawest was, and is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss and go into destruction: and they who dwell on the earth, whose names are not written from the founding of the world in the book of life, shall wonder, seeing the beast, that it was, and is not, and shall be present. <a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Here is the mind that has wisdom: The seven heads are seven mountains, whereon the woman sits. <a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And there are seven kings: five have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come; and when he comes he must remain only a little while. <a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the beast that was and is not, he also is an eighth, and is of the seven, and goes into destruction. <a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have not yet received a kingdom, but receive authority as kings one hour with the beast. <a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These have one mind, and give their power and authority to the beast.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them; for he is Lord of lords and King of kings: and they that are with him called, and chosen, and faithful. <a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he says to me, The waters which thou sawest, where the harlot sits, are peoples and multitudes and nations and tongues. <a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the ten horns which thou sawest, and the beast, these shall hate the harlot, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh, and shall burn her with fire; <a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> for God has given to their hearts to do his mind, and to act with one mind, and to give their kingdom to the beast until the words of God shall be fulfilled. <a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the woman which thou sawest is the great city, which has kingship over the kings of the earth.</p>

</body>
</html>