<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels, Go and pour out the seven bowls of the fury of God upon the earth. <a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the first went and poured out his bowl on the earth; and there came an evil and grievous sore upon the men that had the mark of the beast, and those who worshipped its image. <a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the second poured out his bowl on the sea; and it became blood, as of a dead man; and every living soul died in the sea. <a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the third poured out his bowl on the rivers, and on the fountains of waters; and they became blood. <a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And I heard the angel of the waters saying, Thou art righteous, who art and wast, the holy one, that thou hast judged so; <a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> for they have poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink; they are worthy. <a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I heard the altar saying, Yea, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the fourth poured out his bowl on the sun; and it was given to it to burn men with fire. <a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the men were burnt with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God, who had authority over these plagues, and did not repent to give him glory. <a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the fifth poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast; and its kingdom became darkened; and they gnawed their tongues with distress, <a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and blasphemed the God of the heaven for their distresses and their sores, and did not repent of their works.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the sixth poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates; and its water was dried up, that the way of the kings from the rising of the sun might be prepared. <a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And I saw out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits, as frogs; <a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> for they are the spirits of demons, doing signs; which go out to the kings of the whole habitable world to gather them together to the war of that great day of God the Almighty. <a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> (Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watches and keeps his garments, that he may not walk naked, and that they may not see his shame.) <a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he gathered them together to the place called in Hebrew, Armagedon.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the seventh poured out his bowl on the air; and there came out a great voice from the temple of the heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done. <a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And there were lightnings, and voices, and thunders; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, such an earthquake, so great. <a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the great city was divided into three parts; and the cities of the nations fell: and great Babylon was remembered before God to give her the cup of the wine of the fury of his wrath. <a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And every island fled, and mountains were not found; <a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and a great hail, as of a talent weight, comes down out of the heaven upon men; and men blasphemed God because of the plague of hail, for the plague of it is exceeding great.</p>

</body>
</html>