<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Revelation 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Revelation 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And to the angel of the assembly in Sardis write: These things saith he that has the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars: I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead. <a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Be watchful, and strengthen the things that remain, which are about to die, for I have not found thy works complete before my God. <a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and keep it and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come upon thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know at what hour I shall come upon thee. <a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But thou hast a few names in Sardis which have not defiled their garments, and they shall walk with me in white, because they are worthy. <a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He that overcomes, he shall be clothed in white garments, and I will not blot his name out of the book of life, and will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. <a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And to the angel of the assembly in Philadelphia write: These things saith the holy, the true; he that has the key of David, he who opens and no one shall shut, and shuts and no one shall open: <a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> I know thy works: behold, I have set before thee an opened door, which no one can shut, because thou hast a little power, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name. <a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Behold, I make them of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews, and are not, but lie; behold, I will cause that they shall come and shall do homage before thy feet, and shall know that I have loved thee. <a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee out of the hour of trial, which is about to come upon the whole habitable world, to try them that dwell upon the earth. <a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I come quickly: hold fast what thou hast, that no one take thy crown. <a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He that overcomes, him will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more at all out; and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven, from my God, and my new name. <a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And to the angel of the assembly in Laodicea write: These things says the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God: <a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot; I would thou wert cold or hot. <a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Thus because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I am about to spue thee out of my mouth. <a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Because thou sayest, I am rich, and am grown rich, and have need of nothing, and knowest not that thou art the wretched and the miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked; <a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I counsel thee to buy of me gold purified by fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white garments, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness may not be made manifest; and eye-salve to anoint thine eyes, that thou mayest see. <a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I rebuke and discipline as many as I love; be zealous therefore and repent. <a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Behold, I stand at the door and am knocking; if any one hear my voice and open the door, I will come in unto him and sup with him, and he with me. <a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He that overcomes, to him will I give to sit with me in my throne; as I also have overcome, and have sat down with my Father in his throne. <a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He that has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the assemblies.</p>

</body>
</html>