<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And so Isaac called for Jacob, and he blessed him, and he instructed him, saying: "Do not be willing to accept a mate from the family of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But go, and journey to Mesopotamia of Syria, to the house of Bethuel, your mother's father, and there accept for yourself a wife from the daughters of Laban, your maternal uncle.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And may God almighty bless you, and may he cause you to increase and also to multiply, so that you may be influential among the people.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And may he give the blessings of Abraham to you, and to your offspring after you, so that you may possess the land of your sojourning, which he promised to your grandfather."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when Isaac had dismissed him, setting out, he went to Mesopotamia of Syria, to Laban, the son of Bethuel, the Syrian, the brother to Rebekah, his mother.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But Esau, seeing that his father had blessed Jacob and had sent him into Mesopotamia of Syria, to take a wife from there, and that, after the blessing, he had instructed him, saying: 'You shall not accept a wife from the daughters of Canaan,'</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and that Jacob, obeying his parents, had gone into Syria,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> having evidence also that his father did not look with favor upon the daughters of Canaan,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> he went to Ishmael, and he took as a wife, beside those he had before, Mahalath, the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, the sister of Nebaioth.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Meanwhile Jacob, having departed from Beersheba, continued on to Haran.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when he had arrived at a certain place, where he would rest after the setting of the sun, he took some of the stones that lay there, and placing them under his head, he slept in the same place.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he saw in his sleep: a ladder standing upon the earth, with its top touching heaven, also, the Angels of God ascending and descending by it,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and the Lord, leaning upon the ladder, saying to him: "I am the Lord, the God of Abraham your father, and the God of Isaac. The land, in which you sleep, I will give to you and to your offspring.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And your offspring will be like the dust of the earth. You will spread abroad to the West, and to the East, and to the North, and to the Meridian. And in you and in your offspring, all the tribes of the earth shall be blessed.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And I will be your guardian wherever you will journey, and I will bring you back into this land. Neither will I dismiss you, until I have accomplished all that I have said."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when Jacob had awakened from sleep, he said, "Truly, the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And being terrified, he said: "How terrible this place is! This is nothing other than the house of God and the gateway of heaven."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore, Jacob, arising in the morning, took the stone which he had placed under his head, and he set it up as monument, pouring oil over it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he called the name of the city, 'Bethel,' which before was called Luz.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And then he made a vow, saying: "If God will be with me, and will guard me along the way by which I walk, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and if I will return prosperously to my father's house, then the Lord will be my God,</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and this stone, which I have set up as a monument, will be called 'the House of God.' And from all the things that you will give to me, I will offer tithes to you."</p>

</body>
</html>