<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Sarai, the wife of Abram, had not conceived children. But, having an Egyptian handmaid named Hagar,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> she said to her husband: "Behold, the Lord has closed me, lest I give birth. Enter to my handmaid, so that perhaps I may receive sons of her at least." And when he agreed to her supplication,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> she took Hagar the Egyptian, her handmaid, ten years after they began to live in the land of Canaan, and she gave her to her husband as a wife.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he entered to her. But when she saw that she had conceived, she despised her mistress.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Sarai said to Abram: "You have acted unfairly against me. I gave my handmaid into your bosom, who, when she saw that she had conceived, held me in contempt. May the Lord judge between me and you."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Abram responded to her by saying, "Behold, your handmaid is in your hand to treat as it pleases you." And so, when Sarai afflicted her, she took flight.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when the Angel of the Lord had found her, near the fountain of water in the wilderness, which is on the way to Shur in the desert,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> he said to her: "Hagar, handmaid of Sarai, where have you come from? And where will you go?" And she answered, "I flee from the face of Sarai, my mistress."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the Angel of the Lord said to her, "Return to your mistress, and humble yourself under her hand."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And again he said, "I will multiply your offspring continuously, and they will not be numbered because of their multitude."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But thereafter he said: "Behold, you have conceived, and you will give birth to a son. And you shall call his name Ishmael, because the Lord has heard your affliction.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He will be a wild man. His hand will be against all, and all hands will be against him. And he will pitch his tents away from the region of all his brothers."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then she called upon the name of the Lord who had spoken to her: "You are the God who has seen me." For she said, "Certainly, here I have seen the back of the one who sees me."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Because of this, she called that well: 'The well of the one who lives and who sees me.' The same is between Kadesh and Bered.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Hagar gave birth to a son for Abram, who called his name Ishmael.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar gave birth to Ishmael for him.</p>

</body>
</html>