<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it happened in that time that Amraphel, king of Shinar, and Arioch, king of Pontus, and Chedorlaomer, king of the Elamites, and Tidal, king of the Nations,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> went to war against Bera, king of Sodom, and against Birsha, king of Gomorrah, and against Shinab, king of Admah, and against Shemeber, king of Zeboiim, and against the king of Bela, that is Zoar.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All these came together in the wooded valley, which is now the Sea of Salt.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For they had served Chedorlaomer for twelve years, and in the thirteenth year they withdrew from him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore, in the fourteenth year, Chedorlaomer arrived, and the kings who were with him. And they struck the Rephaim at Ashteroth of the two horns, and the Zuzim with them, and the Emim at Shaveh-Kiriathaim.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and the Chorreans in the mountains of Seir, even to the plains of Paran, which is in wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they returned and arrived at the fountain of Mishpat, which is Kadesh. And they struck the entire region of the Amalekites, and the Amorites who dwelt in Hazazontamar.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and indeed the king of Bela, which is Zoar, went forth. And they directed their point against them in the wooded valley,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> namely, against Chedorlaomer, king of the Elamites, and Tidal, king of the Nations, and Amraphel, king of Shinar, and Arioch, king of Pontus: four kings against five.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now the wooded valley had many pits of bitumen. And so the king of Sodom and the king of Gomorrah turned back and they fell there. And those who remained, fled to the mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then they took all the substance of the Sodomites and the Gomorrahites, and all that pertained to food, and they went away,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> along with both Lot, the son of Abram's brother, who lived in Sodom, and his substance.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And behold, one who had escaped reported it to Abram the Hebrew, who lived in the steep valley of Mamre the Amorite, who was the brother of Eshcol, and the brother of Aner. For these had formed an agreement with Abram.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When Abram had heard this, namely, that his brother Lot had been taken captive, he numbered three hundred and eighteen of his own armed men and he went in pursuit all the way to Dan.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And dividing his company, he rushed upon them in the night. And he struck them and pursued them as far as Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he brought back all the substance, and Lot his brother, with his substance, likewise the women and the people.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then the king of Sodom went out to meet him, after he returned from the slaughter at Chedorlaomer, and the kings who were with him at the valley of Shaveh, which is the valley of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then in truth, Melchizedek, the king of Salem, brought forth bread and wine, for he was a priest of the Most High God;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> he blessed him, and he said: "Blessed be Abram by the Most High God, who created heaven and earth.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And blessed be the Most High God, through whose protection the enemies are in your hands." And he gave him tithes from everything.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then the king of Sodom said to Abram, "Give me these souls, and take the rest for yourself."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he responded to him: "I lift up my hand to the Lord God, the Most High, the Possessor of heaven and earth,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> that from one thread within a blanket, even to a single shoelace, I will not take anything from that which is yours, lest you say, 'I have enriched Abram,'</p>

<p><a id="c14_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> except that which the young men have eaten, and the shares for the men who came with me: Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre. These will take their shares."</p>

</body>
</html>