<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then God remembered Noah, and all living things, and all the cattle, which were with him in the ark, and he brought a wind across the earth, and the waters were diminished.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the fountains of the abyss and the floodgates of heaven were closed. And the rain from heaven was restrained.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the waters were restored to their coming and going from the earth. And they began to diminish after one hundred and fifty days.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, upon the mountains of Armenia.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Yet in truth, the waters were departing and decreasing until the tenth month. For in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tips of the mountains appeared.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when forty days had passed, Noah, opening the window that he had made in the ark, sent forth a raven,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> which went forth and did not return, until the waters were dried up across the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Likewise, he sent forth a dove after him, in order to see if the waters had now ceased upon the face of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But when she did not find a place where her foot might rest, she returned to him in the ark. For the waters were upon the whole earth. And he extended his hand and caught her, and he brought her into the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And then, having waited a further seven days, he again sent forth the dove out of the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And she came to him in the evening, carrying in her mouth an olive branch with green leaves. Noah then understood that the waters had ceased upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And nevertheless, he waited another seven days. And he sent forth the dove, which no longer returned to him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, in the six hundred and first year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the waters were diminished upon the earth. And Noah, opening the cover of the ark, gazed out and saw that the surface of the earth had become dry.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> In the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was made dry.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then God spoke to Noah, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> "Go out of the ark, you and your wife, your sons and the wives of your sons with you.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Bring out with you all the living things that are with you, all that is flesh: as with the birds, so also with the wild beasts and all the animals that move upon the earth. And enter upon the land: increase and multiply upon it."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And so Noah and his sons went out, and his wife and the wives of his sons with him.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then also all living things, and the cattle, and the animals that move upon the earth, according to their kinds, departed from the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Noah built an altar to the Lord. And, taking from each of the cattle and birds that were clean, he offered holocausts upon the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Lord smelled the sweet odor and said: "I will no longer curse the earth because of man. For the feelings and thoughts of the heart of man are prone to evil from his youth. Therefore, I will no longer pierce every living soul as I have done.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> All the days of the earth, seedtime and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, night and day, will not cease."</p>

</body>
</html>