<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the earth was of one language and of the same speech.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when they were advancing from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar, and they dwelt in it.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And each one said to his neighbor, "Come, let us make bricks, and bake them with fire." And they had bricks instead of stones, and pitch instead of mortar.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they said: "Come, let us make a city and a tower, so that its height may reach to heaven. And let us make our name famous before we are divided into all the lands."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the Lord descended to see the city and the tower, which the sons of Adam were building.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said: "Behold, the people are united, and all have one tongue. And since they have begun to do this, they will not desist from their plans, until they have completed their work.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Therefore, come, let us descend, and in that place confound their tongue, so that they may not listen, each one to the voice of his neighbor."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And so the Lord divided them from that place into all the lands, and they ceased to build the city.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And for this reason, its name was called 'Babel,' because in that place the language of the whole earth became confused. And from then on, the Lord scattered them across the face of every region.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> These are the generations of Shem. Shem was one hundred years old when he conceived Arphaxad, two years after the great flood.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And after he conceived Arphaxad, Shem lived for five hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Next, Arphaxad lived for thirty-five years, and then he conceived Shelah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And after he conceived Shelah, Arphaxad lived for three hundred and three years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Likewise, Shelah lived for thirty years, and then he conceived Eber.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And after he conceived Eber, Shelah lived for four hundred and three years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then Eber lived for thirty-four years, and he conceived Peleg.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And after he conceived Peleg, Eber lived for four hundred and thirty years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Likewise, Peleg lived for thirty years, and then he conceived Reu.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And after he conceived Reu, Peleg lived for two hundred and nine years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Reu lived for thirty-two years, and then he conceived Serug.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Likewise, after he conceived Serug, Reu lived for two hundred and seven years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In truth, Serug lived for thirty years, and then he conceived Nahor.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And after he conceived Nahor, Serug lived for two hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And so Nahor lived for twenty-nine years, and then he conceived Terah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And after he conceived Terah, Nahor lived for one hundred and nineteen years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Terah lived for seventy years, and then he conceived Abram, and Nahor, and Haran.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And these are the generations of Terah. Terah conceived Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Next Haran conceived Lot.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Haran died before his father Terah, in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldeans.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Then Abram and Nahor took wives. The name of Abram's wife was Sarai. And the name of Nahor's wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But Sarai was barren and had no children.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And so Terah took his son Abram, and his grandson Lot, the son of Haran, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, the wife of his son Abram, and he led them away from Ur of the Chaldeans, to go into the land of Canaan. And they approached as far as Haran, and they dwelt there.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the days of Terah that passed were two hundred and five years, and then he died in Haran.</p>

</body>
</html>