<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then the Lord visited Sarah, just as he had promised; and he fulfilled what he had spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And she conceived and gave birth to a son in her old age, at the time that God had foretold to her.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Abraham called the name of his son, whom Sarah bore for him, Isaac.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he circumcised him on the eighth day, just as God had instructed him,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> when he was one hundred years old. Indeed, at this stage of his father's life, Isaac was born.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Sarah said: "God has brought laughter to me. Whoever will hear of it will laugh with me."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And again, she said: "Hearing this, who would believe Abraham, that Sarah breast-fed a son, to whom she gave birth, despite being elderly?"</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the boy grew and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the day of his weaning.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when Sarah had seen the son of Hagar the Egyptian playing with her son Isaac, she said to Abraham:</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> "Cast out this woman servant and her son. For the son of a woman servant will not be heir with my son Isaac."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Abraham took this grievously, for the sake of his son.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And God said to him: "Let it not seem harsh to you concerning the boy and your woman servant. In all that Sarah has said to you, listen to her voice. For your offspring will be invoked in Isaac.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet I will also make the son of the woman servant into a great nation, for he is your offspring."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And so Abraham arose in the morning, and taking bread and a skin of water, he placed it upon her shoulder, and he handed over the boy, and he released her. And when she had departed, she wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when the water in the skin had been consumed, she set aside the boy, under one of the trees that were there.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And she moved away and sat in a distant area, as far as a bow can reach. For she said, "I shall not see the boy die." And so, sitting opposite her, he lifted up his voice and wept.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But God heard the voice of the boy. And an Angel of God called to Hagar from heaven, saying: "What are you doing, Hagar? Do not be afraid. For God has heeded the voice of the boy, from the place where he is.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Rise up. Take the boy and hold him by the hand. For I will make of him a great nation."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And God opened her eyes. And seeing a well of water, she went and filled the skin, and she gave the boy to drink.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And God was with him. And he grew, and he stayed in the wilderness, and he became a young man, an archer.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he lived in the desert of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> At the same time, Abimelech and Phicol, the leader of his army, said to Abraham: "God is with you in everything that you do.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore, swear by God that you will do no harm to me, and to my posterity, and to my stock. But according to the mercy that I have done to you, you will do to me and to the land, to which you have turned as a newcomer."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Abraham said, "I will swear."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And he reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which his servants had taken away by force.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Abimelech responded, "I do not know who did this thing, but you also did not reveal it to me, nor have I heard of it, before today."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And so Abraham took sheep and oxen, and he gave them to Abimelech. And both of them struck a pact.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Abraham set aside seven female lambs from the flock.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Abimelech said to him, "What purpose have these seven female lambs, which you have caused to stand separately?"</p>

<p><a id="c21_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But he said, "You will receive seven female lambs from my hand, so that they may be a testimony for me, that I dug this well."</p>

<p><a id="c21_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For this reason, that place was called Beersheba, because there both of them did swear.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they initiated a pact on behalf of the well of oath.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then Abimelech and Phicol, the leader of his army, rose up, and they returned to the land of the Palestinians. In truth, Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and there he called upon the name of the Lord God Eternal.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And he was a settler in the land of the Palestinians for many days.</p>

</body>
</html>