<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> This is the book of the lineage of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him to the likeness of God.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He created them, male and female; and he blessed them. And he called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Adam lived for one hundred and thirty years. And then he conceived a son in his own image and likeness, and he called his name Seth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And after he conceived Seth, the days of Adam that passed were eight hundred years. And he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And all the time that passed while Adam lived was nine hundred and thirty years, and then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Seth likewise lived for one hundred and five years, and then he conceived Enos.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And after he conceived Enos, Seth lived for eight hundred and seven years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And all the days of Seth that passed were nine hundred and twelve years, and then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> In truth, Enos lived ninety years, and then he conceived Cainan.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> After his birth, he lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And all the days of Enos that passed were nine hundred and five years, and then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Likewise, Cainan lived seventy years, and then he conceived Mahalalel.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And after he conceived Mahalalel, Cainan lived for eight hundred and forty years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And all the days of Cainan that passed were nine hundred and ten years, and then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Mahalalel lived sixty-five years, and then he conceived Jared.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And after he conceived Jared, Mahalalel lived for eight hundred and thirty years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And all the days of Mahalalel that passed were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Jared lived for one hundred and sixty-two years, and then he conceived Enoch.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And after he conceived Enoch, Jared lived for eight hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And all the days of Jared that passed were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now Enoch lived for sixty-five years, and then he conceived Methuselah.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Enoch walked with God. And after he conceived Methuselah, he lived for three hundred years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And all the days of Enoch that passed were three hundred and sixty-five years.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And he walked with God, and then he was seen no more, because God took him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Likewise, Methuselah lived for one hundred and eighty-seven years, and then he conceived Lamech.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And after he conceived Lamech, Methuselah lived for seven hundred and eighty-two years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And all the days of Methuselah that passed were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and then he died.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then Lamech lived for one hundred and eighty-two years, and he conceived a son.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he called his name Noah, saying, "This one will console us from the works and hardships of our hands, in the land that the Lord has cursed."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And after he conceived Noah, Lamech lived for five hundred and ninety-five years, and he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And all the days of Lamech that passed were seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and then he died. In truth, when Noah was five hundred years old, he conceived Shem, Ham, and Japheth.</p>

</body>
</html>