<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> While these things were going on, it happened that two eunuchs, the cupbearer of the king of Egypt, and the miller of grain, offended their lord.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Pharaoh, being angry with them, (now the one was in charge of the cupbearers, the other of the millers of grain)</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> sent them to the prison of the leader of the military, in which Joseph also was a prisoner.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But the keeper of the prison delivered them to Joseph, who ministered to them also. Some little time passed by, while they were held in custody.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they both saw a similar dream on one night, whose interpretations should be related to one another.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when Joseph had entered to them in the morning, and had seen them sad,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> he consulted them, saying, "Why is your expression sadder today than usual?"</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> They responded, "We have seen a dream, and there is no one to interpret it for us." And Joseph said to them, "Doesn't interpretation belong to God? Recount for me what you have seen."</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The chief cupbearer explained his dream first. "I saw before me a vine,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> on which were three shoots, which grew little by little into buds, and, after the flowers, it matured into grapes.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the cup of Pharaoh was in my hand. Therefore, I took the grapes, and I pressed them into the cup that I held, and I handed the cup to Pharaoh."</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Joseph responded: "This is the interpretation of the dream. The three shoots are the next three days,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> after which Pharaoh will remember your service, and he will restore you to your former position. And you will give him the cup according to your office, as you were accustomed to do before.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Only remember me, when it will be well with you, and do me this mercy, to suggest to Pharaoh to lead me out of this prison.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For I have been stolen from the land of the Hebrews, and here, innocently, I was cast into the pit."</p>

<p><a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The chief miller of grain, seeing that he had wisely unraveled the dream, said: "I also saw a dream: that I had three baskets of meal above my head,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and in one basket, which was the highest, I carried all foods that are made by the art of baking, and the birds ate from it."</p>

<p><a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Joseph responded: "This is the interpretation of the dream. The three baskets are the next three days,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> after which Pharaoh will carry away your head, and also suspend you from a cross, and the birds will tear your flesh."</p>

<p><a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The third day thereafter was the birthday of Pharaoh. And making a great feast for his servants, he remembered, during the banquet, the chief cupbearer and the chief miller of grain.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And he restored the one to his place, to present him the cup;</p>

<p><a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> the other he hanged on a gallows, and thus the truth of the interpreter of dreams was proven.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And although he advanced with so much prosperity, the chief cupbearer forgot his interpreter of dreams.</p>

</body>
</html>