<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These are the generations of the sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and of the sons who were born to them after the great flood.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The sons of Japheth were Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And then the sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the sons of Javan were Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The islands of the Gentiles were divided by these into their regions, each one according to his tongue, and their families in their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Sons of Ham were Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the sons of Cush were Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dadan.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And then Cush conceived Nimrod; he began to be powerful on the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he was an able hunter before the Lord. From this, a proverb came forth: 'Just like Nimrod, an able hunter before the Lord.'</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And so, the beginning of his kingdom was Babylon, and Erech, and Accad, and Chalanne, in the land of Shinar.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> From that land, Assur came forth, and he built Nineveh, and the streets of the city, and Calah,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and also Resen, between Nineveh and Calah. This is a great city.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And truly, Mizraim conceived Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, Naphtuhim,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and Pathrusim, and Casluhim, from whom came forth the Philistines and the Caphtorim.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then Canaan conceived Sidon his firstborn, the Hittite,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, the Girgashite,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the Hivite, and the Arkite: the Sinite,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and the Arvadian, the Samarite, and the Hamathite. And after this, the peoples of the Canaanites became widespread.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the borders of Chanaan went, as one travels, from Sidon to Gerar, even to Gaza, until one enters Sodom and Gomorrah, and from Admah and Zeboiim, even to Lesa.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> These are the sons of Ham in their kindred, and tongues, and generations, and lands, and nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Likewise, from Shem, the father of all the sons of Heber, the elder brother of Japheth, sons were born.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sons of Shem were Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The sons of Aram were Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But truly, Arphaxad conceived Shelah, from whom was born Eber.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And to Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth became divided, and his brother's name was Joktan.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> This Joktan conceived Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, Jerah</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and Hadoram, and Uzal and Diklah,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and Obal and Abimael, Sheba</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and Ophir, and Havilah and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And their habitation extended from Messa, as one sojourns, even to Sephar, a mountain in the east.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> These are the sons of Shem according to their kindred, and tongues, and the regions within their nations.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> These are the families of Noah, according to their peoples and nations. The nations became divided according to these, on the earth after the great flood.</p>

</body>
</html>