<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Likewise, Jacob continued on the journey that he had begun. And the Angels of God met him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> When he had seen them, he said, "These are the Encampments of God." And he called the name of that place Mahanaim, that is, 'Encampments.'</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then he also sent messengers before him to his brother Esau, in the land of Seir, in the region of Edom.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he instructed them, saying: "You shall speak in this way to my lord Esau: 'Your brother Jacob says these things: "I have sojourned with Laban, and I have been with him until the present day.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have oxen, and donkeys, and sheep, and men servants, and women servants. And now I send an ambassador to my lord, so that I may find favor in your sight." ' "</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, "We went to your brother Esau, and behold, he rushes to meet you with four hundred men."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Jacob was very afraid. And in his terror, he divided the people who were with him, likewise the flocks, and the sheep, and the oxen, and the camels, into two companies,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> saying: "If Esau goes to one company, and strikes it, the other company, which is left behind, will be saved."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jacob said: "God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, O Lord who said to me: 'Return to your land, and to the place of your nativity, and I will do well for you.'</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I am less than any of your compassions and your truth, which you have fulfilled to your servant. With my staff I crossed over this Jordan. And now I go back with two companies.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Rescue me from the hand of my brother Esau, for I am very afraid of him, lest perhaps he may come and strike down the mother with the sons.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You did say that you would do well by me, and that you would expand my offspring like the sand of the sea, which, because of its multitude, cannot be numbered."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when he had slept there that night, he separated, from the things that he had, gifts for his brother Esau:</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> two hundred she-goats, twenty he-goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> thirty milking camels with their young, forty cows, and twenty bulls, twenty she-donkeys, and ten of their young.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he sent them by the hands of his servants, each flock separately, and he said to his servants: "Pass before me, and let there be a space between flock and flock."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he instructed the first, saying: "If you happen to meet my brother Esau, and he questions you: "Whose are you?" or, "Where are you going?" or, "Whose are these which follow you?"</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> you shall respond: "Your servant Jacob's. He has sent them as a gift to my lord Esau. And he is also coming after us."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Similarly, he gave orders to the second, and the third, and to all who followed the flocks, saying: "Speak these same words to Esau, when you find him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And you will add: 'Your servant Jacob himself also follows after us, for he said: "I will appease him with the gifts that go ahead, and after this, I will see him; perhaps he will be gracious to me." ' "</p>

<p><a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And so the gifts went before him, but he himself lodged that night in the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when he had arisen early, he took his two wives, and the same number of handmaids, with his eleven sons, and he crossed over the ford of Jabbok.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And having delivered over all the things that belonged to him,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> he remained alone. And behold, a man wrestled with him until morning.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when he saw that he would not be able to overcome him, he touched the nerve of his thigh, and immediately it withered.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said to him, "Release me, for now the dawn ascends." He responded, "I will not release you, unless you bless me."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Therefore he said, "What is your name?" He answered, "Jacob."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But he said, "Your name will not be called Jacob, but Israel; for if you have been strong against God, how much more will you prevail against men?"</p>

<p><a id="c32_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Jacob questioned him, "Tell me, by what name are you called?" He responded, "Why do you ask my name?" And he blessed him in the same place.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, saying, "I have seen God face to face, and my soul has been saved."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And immediately the sun rose upon him, after he had crossed beyond Peniel. Yet in truth, he limped on his foot.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For this reason, the sons of Israel, even to the present day, do not eat the nerve that withered in Jacob's thigh, because he touched the nerve of his thigh and it was obstructed.</p>

</body>
</html>