<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Genesis 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Genesis 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Sarah lived for one hundred and twenty-seven years.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And she died in the city of Arba, which is Hebron, in the land of Canaan. And Abraham came to mourn and weep for her.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And when he had risen up from the funeral duties, he spoke to the sons of Heth, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> "I am a newcomer and a sojourner among you. Give me the right of a sepulcher among you, so that I may bury my dead."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sons of Heth responded by saying:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> "Hear us, O lord, you are a leader of God among us. Bury your dead in our chosen sepulchers. And no man shall be able to prohibit you from burying your dead within his memorial."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Abraham arose, and he reverenced the people of the land, namely, the sons of Heth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said to them: "If it pleases your soul that I should bury my dead, hear me, and intercede on my behalf with Ephron, the son of Zohar,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> so that he may give me the double cave, which he has at the far end of his field. He may transfer it to me for as much money as it is worth in your sight, for the possession of a sepulcher."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now Ephron dwelt in the midst of the sons of Heth. And Ephron responded to Abraham in the hearing of everyone who was entering at the gate of his city, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> "Let it never be so, my lord, but you should pay greater heed to what I say. The field I will transfer to you, and the cave that is in it. In the presence of the sons of my people, bury your dead."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Abraham reverenced in the sight of the people of the land.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he spoke to Ephron, standing in the midst of the people: "I ask you to hear me. I will give you money for the field. Take it, and so I will bury my dead in it."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Ephron responded: "My lord, hear me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The land that you request is worth four hundred shekels of silver. This is the price between me and you. But how much is this? Bury your dead."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when Abraham had heard this, he weighed out the money that Ephron had requested, in the hearing of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, of the approved public currency.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And having confirmed that the field, in which there was a double cave overlooking Mamre, formerly belonged to Ephron, both it and the sepulcher, and all its trees, with all its surrounding limits,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Abraham took it as a possession, in the sight of the sons of Heth and of everyone who was entering at the gate of his city.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> So then, Abraham buried his wife Sarah in the double cave of the field that overlooked Mamre. This is Hebron in the land of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the field was confirmed to Abraham, with the cave that was in it, as a memorial possession before the sons of Heth.</p>

</body>
</html>