<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord said to Moses: "Now you will see what I shall do to Pharaoh. For through a strong hand he will release them, and by a mighty hand he will cast them from his land."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: "I am the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> who appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as Almighty God. And I did not reveal to them my name: ADONAI.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And I formed a covenant with them, in order to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their sojourning, in which they were newcomers.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I have heard the groaning of the sons of Israel, with which the Egyptians have oppressed them. And I have remembered my covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For this reason, say to the sons of Israel: I am the Lord who will lead you away from the work house of the Egyptians, and rescue you from servitude, and also redeem you with an exalted arm and great judgments.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And I will take you to myself as my people, and I will be your God. And you will know that I am the Lord your God, who led you away from the work house of the Egyptians,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and who brought you into the land, over which I lifted up my hand in order to grant it to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And I will grant it to you as a possession. I am the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And so, Moses explained all these things to the sons of Israel, who did not agree with him, because of their anguish of spirit and very difficult work.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> "Enter and speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, so that he may release the sons of Israel from his land."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Moses responded in the sight the Lord: "Behold, the sons of Israel do not listen to me. And how will Pharaoh listen to me, especially since I am of uncircumcised lips?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, and he gave them a commandment for the sons of Israel, and for Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, that they should lead the sons of Israel away from the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These are the leaders of the houses by their families. The sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch and Pallu, Hezron and Carmi.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> These are the kindred of Reuben. The sons of Simeon: Jemuel and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite women. These are the progeny of Simeon.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And these are the names of the sons of Levi by their kindred: Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari. Now the years of the life of Levi were one hundred and thirty-seven.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, by their kindred.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron and Uzziel. Likewise, the years of the life of Kohath were one hundred and thirty-three.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the kindred of Levi by their families.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now Amram took as a wife Jochebed, his paternal aunt, who bore for him Aaron and Moses. And the years of the life of Amram were one hundred and thirty-seven.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Likewise, the sons of Izhar: Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Likewise, the sons of Uzziel: Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Sithri.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now Aaron took as a wife Elizabeth, the daughter of Amminadab, sister of Nahshon, who bore for him Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Likewise, the sons of Korah: Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph. These are the kindred of the Korahites.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And truly Eleazar, the son of Aaron, took a wife from the daughters of Putiel. And she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the Levitical families by their kindred.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> These are Aaron and Moses, whom the Lord instructed to lead the sons of Israel away from the land of Egypt by their companies.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These are those who speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, in order to lead the sons of Israel out of Egypt. These are Moses and Aaron,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> in the day when the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: "I am the Lord. Speak to Pharaoh, king of Egypt, all that I speak to you."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Moses said in the sight of the Lord: "Lo, I am of uncircumcised lips, how will Pharaoh listen to me?"</p>

</body>
</html>