<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And they set out from Elim. And the entire multitude of the sons of Israel arrived at the desert of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month, after they departed from the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the entire congregation of the sons of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the sons of Israel said to them: "If only we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when we sat around bowls of meat and ate bread until filled. Why have you led us away, into this desert, so that you might kill the entire multitude with famine?"</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the Lord said to Moses: "Behold, I will rain down bread from heaven for you. Let the people go out and collect what is sufficient for each day, so that I may test them, as to whether or not they will walk in my law.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But on the sixth day, let them prepare what they use for carrying, and let there be double what they were accustomed to collect on a single day."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses and Aaron said to the sons of Israel: "In the evening, you will know that the Lord has led you away from the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And in the morning, you will see the glory of the Lord. For he has heard your murmuring against the Lord. But as for us, truly what are we, that you would whisper against us?"</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Moses said: "In the evening, the Lord will give you flesh to eat, and in the morning, bread in fullness. For he has heard your murmurings that you have murmured against him. For what are we? Your murmuring is not against us, but against the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Moses also said to Aaron: "Say to the whole congregation of the sons of Israel, 'Approach before the Lord. For he has heard your murmuring.' "</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when Aaron spoke to the entire assembly of the sons of Israel, they looked out toward the wilderness. And behold, the glory of the Lord appeared in a cloud.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> "I have heard the murmuring of the sons of Israel. Say to them: 'In the evening, you will eat flesh, and in the morning, you will be filled with bread. And you shall know that I am the Lord your God.' "</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, it happened in the evening: quails, rising up, covered the camp. Likewise, in the morning, a dew lay all around the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when it had covered the face of the earth, it appeared, in the wilderness, small and as if crushed with a pestle, similar to hoar-frost on the ground.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> When the sons of Israel had seen it, they said one to another: "Manhu?" which means "What is this?" For they did not know what it was. And Moses said to them: "This is the bread that the Lord has given you to eat.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> This is the word that the Lord has instructed. Let each one collect as much of it as is sufficient to eat. One omer for each head. According to the number of your souls which live in a tent, so will you take of it."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the sons of Israel did so. And they collected: some more, others less.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they measured by the measure of an omer. He who collected more, did not have too much; nor did he who prepared less, find too little. But each one gathered according to what they were able to eat.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Moses said to them, "Let no one leave any of it behind until morning."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And they did not listen to him, but they left some of it behind until morning, and it began to swarm with worms, and it putrefied. And Moses became angry against them.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then each one collected, in the morning, as much as would be sufficient to eat. And after the sun became hot, it melted.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But on the sixth day, they collected a double portion, that is, two omers for each man. Then all the leaders among the multitude came, and they discoursed with Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said to them: "This is what the Lord has spoken: Tomorrow, the rest day of the Sabbath, has been sanctified to the Lord. Whatever would be done, do it now. And whatever would be cooked, cook it now. Then anything that will have been left over, store it until morning."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they did just as Moses had instructed, and it did not putrefy, nor were there any worms found in it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Moses said: "Eat it today, because it is the Sabbath of the Lord. Today it will not be found in the field.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Gather for six days. But on the seventh day, it is the Sabbath of the Lord, for which reason it will not be found."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the seventh day arrived. And some of the people, going out to collect it, did not find it.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then the Lord said to Moses: "How long will you be unwilling to keep my commandments and my law?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> See how the Lord has given you the Sabbath, and, because of this, on the sixth day he distributes to you a double portion. Let each one remain with his own, and let no one go forth from his place on the seventh day."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the people kept the Sabbath on the seventh day.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the house of Israel called its name 'Manna.' It was like white coriander seed, and its taste was like wheat flour with honey.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Then Moses said: "This is the word that the Lord has instructed: Fill an omer of it, and let it be kept for future generations hereafter, so that they may know the bread, with which I nourished you in the wilderness, when you had been led away from the land of Egypt."</p>

<p><a id="c16_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Moses said to Aaron, "Take one vessel, and put manna into it, as much as an omer is able to hold. And store it in the sight of the Lord, to keep for your generations,</p>

<p><a id="c16_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> just as the Lord instructed Moses." And so, Aaron placed it in the tabernacle, in reserve.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Now the sons of Israel ate manna for forty years, until they arrived in a habitable land. With this food they were nourished, even until they touched the borders of the land of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Now an omer is a tenth part of an ephah.</p>

</body>
</html>