<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Behold, I have called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, from the tribe of Judah,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, and understanding, and knowledge in every craft,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> in order to design whatever must be fabricated from gold, and silver, and brass,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> from marble, and precious stones, and various woods.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And I have given to him, as his associate, Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan. And I have placed wisdom in the heart of every artisan, so that they may make everything as I have instructed you:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> the tabernacle of the covenant, and the ark of the testimony, and the propitiatory which is over it, and all the vessels of the tabernacle,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and the table and its vessels, the most pure lampstand with its vessels, and the altars of incense</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and of holocaust and all their vessels, the washtub with its base,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> the holy vestments for the ministry of Aaron the priest, and for his sons, so that they may execute their office of sacred rites,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the oil of unction, and the incense of aromatics in the Sanctuary. All the things that I have instructed you, they shall make."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> "Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: See that you keep my Sabbath. For it is a sign between me and you among your generations, so that you may know that I am the Lord, who sanctifies you.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Keep my Sabbath, for it is holy to you. Whoever will have polluted it, shall die a death. Whoever will have done any work in it, his soul shall perish from the midst of his people.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For six days you shall do work. On the seventh day, it is the Sabbath, a rest sanctified by the Lord. All who will have done work on this day shall die.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let the sons of Israel keep the Sabbath, and let them celebrate it throughout their generations. It is an everlasting covenant</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> between me and the sons of Israel, and a perpetual sign. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and in the seventh he ceased from work."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the Lord, having completed speaking in this way on Mount Sinai, gave to Moses two stone tablets of testimony, written with the finger of God.</p>

</body>
</html>