<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, when all the multitude of the sons of Israel had gathered together, he said to them: "These are the things that the Lord has ordered to be done:</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> For six days you shall do work; the seventh day, the Sabbath and the rest of the Lord, will be holy to you; whoever will have done any work in it shall be killed.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You shall not kindle a fire in any of your dwelling places throughout the day of the Sabbath."</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And Moses said to the entire crowd of the sons of Israel: "This is the word which the Lord has instructed, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Separate from among you the first-fruits to the Lord. Let all who are willing and have a ready soul offer these to the Lord: gold, and silver, and brass,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> hyacinth, and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, and fine linen, the hair of goats,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and the skins of rams, dyed red, and violet skins, setim wood,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and oil to prepare lights and to produce ointment, and most sweet incense,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> onyx stones and gems, to adorn the ephod and the breastplate.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And whoever among you is wise, let him come and make what the Lord has commanded:</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the tabernacle, certainly, and its roof, and also the covering, the rings, and the panels with the bars, the tent pegs and the bases,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> the ark and its bars, the propitiatory, and the veil that is drawn before it,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> the table with its bars and vessels, and the bread of the presence,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> the lampstand to hold up the lights, its vessels and lamps, and the oil to the nourish the fire,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> the altar of incense and its bars, and the oil of unction, and the incense of aromatics, the tent at the door of the tabernacle,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> the altar of holocaust and its grate of brass, with the bars and vessels, the washtub and its base,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the curtains of the atrium, with the columns and the bases, the hanging at the doors of the vestibule,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> the tent pegs of the tabernacle and the atrium, with their little cords,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> the vestments, which are to be used in the ministry of the Sanctuary, the vestments of Aaron, the high priest, as well as those of his sons, in order to exercise the priesthood to me."</p>

<p><a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And all the multitude of the sons of Israel, departing from the sight of Moses,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> offered the first-fruits to the Lord with a most ready and devout mind, to accomplish the work of the tabernacle of the testimony. Whatever was needed for worship and for the holy vestments,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> men along with women provided: arm bands and earrings, rings and bracelets. And every vessel of gold was separated, to be donated to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If anyone had hyacinth, and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, fine linen and the hair of goats, the skins of rams, dyed red, and violet skins,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> metal of silver and brass, they offered it to the Lord, along with setim wood for various uses.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But the skillful women also gave whatever they had spun: hyacinth, purple, and vermillion, as well as fine linen,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and the hair of goats, donating everything of their own accord.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Yet truly, the leaders offered onyx stones and gems, for the ephod and the breastplate,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and aromatics and oil, to maintain the lights, and to prepare ointment, and also to produce incense with a most sweet odor.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> All the men and women offered donations with a devout mind, so that the works might be done which the Lord had ordered by the hand of Moses. All the sons of Israel dedicated voluntary offerings to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Moses said to the sons of Israel: "Behold, the Lord has called by name Bezalel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, from the tribe of Judah,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and he has filled him with the Spirit of God, with wisdom, and understanding, and knowledge, and all teaching,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> to design and to fashion, with gold and silver and brass,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and with engraving stones, and with the skill of a carpenter. Whatever can be skillfully invented,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> he has given to his heart. It is likewise with Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach from the tribe of Dan.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> He has taught both of them wisdom, in order to do the work of carpentry, tapestry, and embroidery, from hyacinth, and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, and fine linen, and every textile, and to discover whatever may be new."</p>

</body>
</html>