<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Responding, Moses said, "They will not believe me, and they will not listen to my voice, but they will say: 'The Lord has not appeared to you.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, he said to him, "What is that you hold in your hand?" He answered, "A staff."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the Lord said, "Cast it down upon the ground." He cast it down, and it was turned into a snake, so that Moses fled away.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the Lord said, "Reach out your hand, and take hold of its tail." He reached out his hand and took hold, and it was turned into a staff.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> "So may they believe," he said, "that the Lord God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the Lord said again, "Put your hand into your bosom." And when he had put it into his bosom, he brought it out leprous, resembling snow.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> "Put your hand back," he said, "into your bosom." He put it back and brought it out again, and it was like the rest of his flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> "If they will not believe you," he said, "and will not listen to the sermon of the first sign, then they will believe the word of the subsequent sign.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But if they will not believe even these two signs, and they will not listen to your voice: take from the water of the river, and pour it upon the dry land, and whatever you will have drawn from the river will be turned into blood."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Moses said: "I beg you, O Lord, I was not eloquent yesterday or the day before. And from the time that you have spoken to your servant, I have a greater impediment and slowness of tongue."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The Lord said to him: "Who made the mouth of man? And who has formed the mute and the deaf, the seeing and the blind? Was it not I?</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Go on, therefore, and I will be in your mouth. And I will teach you what you shall say."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But he said, "I beg you, O Lord, send whomever else you would send."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The Lord, being angry at Moses, said: "Aaron the Levite is your brother. I know that he is eloquent. Behold, he is going out to meet you, and seeing you, he will rejoice in heart.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Speak to him, and put my words in his mouth. And I will be in your mouth and in his mouth, and I will reveal to you what you must do.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He will speak for you to the people, and he will be your mouth. But you will be with him in those things that pertain to God.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Also, take this staff into your hand; with it you will accomplish the signs."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Moses went forth, and he returned to Jethro, his father in law, and he said to him, "I shall go and return to my brothers in Egypt, so that I may see if they are still alive." And Jethro said to him, "Go in peace."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And so the Lord said to Moses in Midian: "Go, and return to Egypt. For all those who sought your life have died."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore, Moses took his wife and his sons, and he placed them upon a donkey, and he returned into Egypt, carrying the staff of God in his hand.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Lord said to him, as he was returning to Egypt: "See that you accomplish, in the sight of Pharaoh, all the wonders that I have placed in your hand. I will harden his heart, and he will not release the people.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And you shall say to him: 'Thus says the Lord: Israel is my firstborn son.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I have said to you: Release my son, so that he may serve me. And you were not willing to release him. Behold, I will put to death your firstborn son.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And while he was on the journey, at an inn, the Lord met him, and he was willing to kill him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For this reason, Zipporah took a very sharp stone, and she circumcised the foreskin of her son, and she touched his feet, and she said, "You are a bloody spouse to me."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he released him, after she had said, "You are a bloody spouse," because of the circumcision.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then the Lord said to Aaron, "Go into the desert to meet Moses." And he went directly to meet him on the mountain of God, and he kissed him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Moses explained to Aaron all the words of the Lord, by which he had sent him, and the signs which he had commanded.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And they arrived at the same time, and they gathered together all the elders of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And Aaron spoke all the words which the Lord had said to Moses. And he accomplished the signs in the sight of the people,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and the people believed. And they heard that the Lord had visited the sons of Israel, and that he had looked with favor upon their affliction. And falling prostrate, they worshiped.</p>

</body>
</html>