<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He also said to Moses: "Ascend to the Lord, you and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy elders out of Israel, and adore from a distance.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And only Moses will ascend to the Lord, and these shall not approach. Neither shall the people ascend with him."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore, Moses went and explained to the people all the words of the Lord, as well as the judgments. And all the people responded with one voice: "We will do all the words of the Lord, which he has spoken."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then Moses wrote all the words of the Lord. And rising up in the morning, he built an altar at the base of the mountain, with twelve titles according to the twelve tribes of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he sent youths from the sons of Israel, and they offered holocausts, and they immolated calves as peace-offerings to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so Moses took one half part of the blood, and he put it into bowls. Then the remaining part he poured over the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And taking up the book of the covenant, he read it in the hearing of the people, who said: "All that the Lord has spoken, we will do, and we will be obedient."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> In truth, taking up the blood, he sprinkled it on the people, and he said, "This is the blood of the covenant, which the Lord has formed with you concerning all these words."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Moses and Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel ascended.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they saw the God of Israel. And under his feet was something like a work of sapphire stone, or like the sky, when it is serene.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Neither did he lay his hand upon those of the sons of Israel who were at a distance. And they saw God, and they ate and drank.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then the Lord said to Moses: "Ascend to me on the mountain, and be there. And I will give to you tablets of stone, and the law and the commandments that I have written. So may you teach them."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Moses rose up, with Joshua his minister. And Moses, ascending on the mountain of God,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> said to the elders: "Wait here, until we return to you. You have Aaron and Hur with you. If any question arises, you shall refer it to them."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when Moses had ascended, a cloud covered the mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the glory of the Lord dwelt upon Sinai, covering it with a cloud for six days. And on the seventh day, he called to him from the middle of the mist.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now the appearance of the glory of the Lord was like a burning fire over the summit of the mountain in the sight of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Moses, entering into the midst of the cloud, ascended the mountain. And he was there for forty days and forty nights.</p>

</body>
</html>