<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: "Go forth, ascend from this place, you and your people, whom you led away from the land of Egypt, into the land that I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying: To your offspring, I will give it.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And I will send an Angel to precede you, so that I may cast out the Canaanite, and the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and so that you may enter into a land flowing with milk and honey. For I will not go up with you, since you are a stiff-necked people, lest perhaps I may destroy you on the way."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And upon hearing this very bad news, the people mourned; and no one put on his finery according to custom.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Lord said to Moses: "Say to the sons of Israel: You are a stiff-necked people. I should at once go up into your midst and destroy you. Now immediately put aside your ornaments, so that I may know what to do to you."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, the sons of Israel put aside their ornaments before Mount Horeb.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Also, Moses took the tabernacle and pitched it beyond the camp at a distance, and he called its name: 'Tabernacle of the Covenant.' And all the people, who had any kind of question, went out to the Tabernacle of the Covenant, beyond the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when Moses went out to the tabernacle, all the people rose up, and each one stood at the door of his pavilion, and they beheld the back of Moses until he entered the tent.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when he had gone into the Tabernacle of the Covenant, the pillar of cloud descended and stood at the door, and he spoke with Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And all discerned that the pillar of cloud stood at the door of the Tabernacle. And they stood and worshipped at the doors of their tents.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But the Lord spoke to Moses face to face, just as a man is used to speaking to his friend. And when he returned to the camp, his minister Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, did not withdraw from the Tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then Moses said to the Lord: "You instruct me to lead this people away, and you do not reveal to me whom you will send with me, particularly since you have said: 'I know you by name, and you have found favor before me.'</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If, therefore, I have found favor in your sight, show your face to me, so that I may know you and may find grace before your eyes. Look favorably on your people, this nation."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the Lord said, "My face will precede you, and I will give you rest."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Moses said: "If you will not yourself precede us, then do not lead us away from this place.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For how will we be able to know, I and your people, that we have found grace in your sight, unless you walk with us, so that we may be glorified out of all the people who live upon the earth?"</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then the Lord said to Moses: "This word also, which you have spoken, I will do. For you have found grace before me, and I have known you by name."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he said, "Show me your glory."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He responded: "I will show you all that is good, and I will call out with the name of the Lord before you. And I will take pity on whomever I will, and I will be lenient to whomever it will please me."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And again he said: "You are not able to see my face. For man shall not see me and live."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And again, he said: "Behold, there is a place with me, and you shall stand upon the rock.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when my glory will cross over, I will set you in a cleft of the rock, and I will protect you with my right hand, until I pass by.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back. But my face you are not able to see."</p>

</body>
</html>