<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "Truly, thus shall you make the tabernacle: You shall make ten curtains of fine twisted linen, and hyacinth as well as purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, with diverse embroidery.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The length of one curtain shall have twenty-eight cubits. The width shall be four cubits. The entire set of curtains shall be of one measure.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Five curtains shall be joined to one another, and the other five shall be similarly coupled together.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You shall make loops of hyacinth on the sides at the edges of the curtains, so that they will be able to be joined to one another.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> A curtain shall have fifty loops on each of two sides, inserted in such a manner that loop may come against loop, and one can be fitted to the other.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You shall also make fifty rings of gold, with which the veils of the curtains are to be joined, so that it shall be one tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You shall also make eleven haircloth canopies to cover the roof of the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The length of one canopy shall hold thirty cubits, and the width, four. The measure of all the canopies shall be equal.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Five of these you shall join by themselves, and six of these you shall couple to one another, in such a manner as to double the sixth canopy at the front of the roof.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You shall also make fifty loops along the edge of one canopy, so that it may be able to be joined with the other, and fifty loops along the edge of the other canopy, so that it may be coupled with the other.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You shall also make fifty brass buckles, with which the loops may be joined, so that there may be one covering out of all.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then what will be left over of the canopies which are prepared for the roof, that is, one canopy which is in excess, from half of it you shall cover the back of the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And one cubit will hang down on one side, and another on the other side, which is more than the length of the curtains, protecting both sides of the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You shall also make another covering for the roof from the skins of rams, dyed-red, and above that again, another covering of violet-colored skins.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You shall also make the standing panels of the tabernacle from setim wood.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Of these, each shall have ten cubits in length, and in width, one and one half.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> At the sides of the panels, there shall be made two dovetails, by which one panel may be connected to another panel; and in this way all the panels shall be prepared.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Of these, twenty shall be at the meridian, which lies toward the south.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For these, you shall cast forty bases of silver, so that two bases will lie under each panel at its two corners.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Likewise, at the second side of the tabernacle, which lies to the north, there shall be twenty panels,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> having forty bases of silver; two bases shall support each panel.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Truly, toward the western part of the tabernacle, you shall make six panels,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and again another two, which will be raised at the corners, behind the back of the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And these shall be joined together from bottom to top, and one joint shall retain them all. Likewise, two of the panels, which will be set at the corners, shall be served by similar joints.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And together these will be eight panels, and their bases of silver, sixteen, counting two bases for each panel.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> You shall also make five bars of setim wood, to connect the panels on one side of the tabernacle,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and five others on the other side, and the same number toward the western part.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> These shall be set along the middle of the panels, from one end all the way to the other end.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Likewise, the panels themselves you shall overlay with gold, and you shall establish rings of gold in them, by which the bars of the panels may be connected. These you shall cover with layers of gold.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And you shall raise the tabernacle according to the example which was shown to you on the mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> You shall also make a veil of hyacinth, and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, and fine twisted linen, wrought with a diversity of continuous and beautiful embroidery.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And you shall suspend it before four columns of setim wood, which themselves certainly shall be overlaid with gold, and have heads of gold, but bases of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then the veil shall be inserted through the rings. Beyond the veil, you shall place the ark of the testimony, where both the Sanctuary and the Sanctuary of Sanctuaries shall be divided.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And you shall place the propitiatory over the ark of the testimony, in the Holy of Holies.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the table shall be outside the veil. And opposite the table shall be the lampstand, in the meridian of the tabernacle. For the table shall stand at the north side.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> You shall also make a tent at the entrance of the tabernacle from hyacinth, and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, and fine twisted linen, wrought with embroidery.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And you shall overlay with gold five columns of setim wood, over which the tent shall be drawn. The heads of these shall be of gold, and the bases of brass."</p>

</body>
</html>