<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> He also made the altar of holocaust from setim wood: five cubits square, and three in height,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> the horns of which proceeded from the corners. And he covered it with layers of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And for its uses, he prepared diverse vessels out of brass: kettles, forceps, little hooks, larger hooks, and receptacles for the fire.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And he made its grating of brass, in the manner of a net, and under it, in the midst of the altar, its base,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> casting four rings at the four ends of the net in order to set the bars, so as to carry it.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> These bars he also made of setim wood, and he covered them with layers of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he drew them through the rings, which projected from the sides of the altar. But the altar itself was not solid, but hollow, made from panels and empty inside.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He also made the washtub of brass, with its base made from the mirrors of the women who kept watch at the door of the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He also made the atrium, at the south side of which were hangings of fine twisted linen of one hundred cubits and</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> twenty columns of brass with their bases. The heads of the columns and all of the engraving work were of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Equally, at the northern area, the hangings, the columns, and the bases and heads of the columns were of the same measure and work and metal.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yet truly, on that side which looks out toward the west, there were hangings of fifty cubits, and ten columns with their bases of brass. And the heads of the columns and all of the engraving work were of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Furthermore, toward the east, he prepared hangings of fifty cubits:</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> of which, there were fifteen cubits, among three columns with their bases, holding up one side,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and on the other side, (for between the two he made the entrance of the tabernacle) there were equally hangings of fifteen cubits, and three pillars, and the same number of bases.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> All the hangings of the atrium were woven from fine twisted linen.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The bases of the columns were of brass, but their heads with all of their engravings were of silver. Now he also overlaid the columns of the atrium themselves with silver.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he made, at its entrance, a hanging, wrought with embroidery, of hyacinth, purple, vermillion, and fine twisted linen, which held twenty cubits in length, yet truly it was five cubits in height, as with the measure of all the hangings of the atrium.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now the columns at the entrance were four, with bases of brass, and their heads and engravings were of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Likewise, the tent pegs of the tabernacle and the atrium all around he made of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> These are the instruments of the tabernacle of the testimony, which were enumerated according to the instruction of Moses, with the ceremonies of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> which Bezalel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur from the tribe of Judah, had completed, just as the Lord decreed through Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He was joined by his associate, Oholiab, the son of Ahisamach, from the tribe of Dan, who himself was also an exceptional artisan of wood, and of weaving, as well as of embroidery, with hyacinth, purple, vermillion, and fine linen.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> All of the gold that was expended in the work of the Sanctuary, and that was offered in donation, was twenty-nine talents and seven hundred thirty shekels, according to the measure of the Sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now it was offered by those who were past the numbering of twenty years and above: from six hundred and three thousand, five hundred and fifty men able to bear arms.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> There were, beyond that, one hundred talents of silver, from which were cast the bases for the Sanctuary and for the entrance where the veil hangs.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> One hundred bases were made from one hundred talents, a single talent being counted for each base.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But from one thousand seven hundred and seventy-five, he made the heads of the columns, which he also clothed with silver.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Likewise, of brass, there was offered seventy-two thousand talents, and four hundred more shekels,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> from which were cast the bases at the entrance of the tabernacle of the testimony, and the altar of brass with its grating, and the vessels which pertain to its use,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and the bases of the atrium, as much at the circumference as at its entrance, and the tent pegs of the tabernacle and of the atrium all round.</p>

</body>
</html>