<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then the Lord said to Moses: "Enter to Pharaoh, and say to him: 'Thus says the Lord God of the Hebrews: Release my people, to sacrifice to me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But if you still refuse, and you retain them,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> behold, my hand will be over your fields. And a very grievous pestilence will be upon the horses, and the donkeys, and the camels, and the oxen, and the sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the Lord will cause a miracle between the possessions of Israel and the possessions of the Egyptians, so that nothing at all will perish from those things which belong to the sons of Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Lord appointed a time, saying: "Tomorrow, the Lord will accomplish this word in the land."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, the Lord accomplished this word the next day. And all the animals of the Egyptians died. Yet truly, of the animals of the sons of Israel, nothing at all perished.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Pharaoh sent to see; neither was there anything dead of those things that Israel possessed. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not release the people.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the Lord said to Moses and to Aaron: "Take handfuls of ashes from the oven, and let Moses sprinkle it into the air, in the sight of Pharaoh.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And let there be dust upon all the land of Egypt. For there will be sores and swelling pustules on men and on beasts, throughout the entire land of Egypt."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And they took ashes from the oven, and they stood in the sight of Pharaoh, and Moses sprinkled it in the air. And there came sores with swelling pustules on men and on beasts.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Neither could the sorcerers stand in the sight of Moses, because of the sores that were on them and on all the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not listen to them, just as the Lord said to Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the Lord said to Moses: "Rise up in the morning, and stand in the sight of Pharaoh, and you will say to him: 'Thus says the Lord God of the Hebrews: Release my people to sacrifice to me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> For at this turn, I will send all my plagues upon your heart, and upon your servants, and upon your people. So may you know that there is no one like me in all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For now, extending my hand, I shall strike you and your people with pestilence, and you will perish from the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But it was for this reason that I appointed you, so that I may reveal my strength by you, and so that my name may be described throughout all the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Do you still retain my people, and are you still unwilling to release them?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> So then, tomorrow, at this same hour, I will rain down exceedingly great hail, such as has not been in Egypt from the day that it was founded, even until this present time.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore, send immediately and gather together your cattle, and all that you have in the field. For men and beasts, and all things that will be found outside, not gathered in from the fields, and on which the hail will fall, shall die.' "</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> He who feared the word of the Lord among the servants of Pharaoh caused his servants and cattle to flee together into the houses.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But he who neglected the word of the Lord released his servants and cattle into the fields.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Lord said to Moses: "Extend your hand into the sky, so that there may be hail in the entire land of Egypt, on men, and on beasts, and on every plant of the field in the land of Egypt."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Moses extended his staff into the sky, and the Lord sent thunder and hail, and also lightning dashing across the earth. And the Lord rained down hail upon the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the hail and intermingled fire drove on together. And it was of such magnitude as had never before been seen in the entire land of Egypt, from the time when that nation was formed.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the hail struck, throughout all the land of Egypt, everything that was in the fields, from man even to beast. And the hail struck down every plant of the field, and it broke every tree of the region.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Only in the land of Goshen, where the sons of Israel were, did the hail not fall.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Pharaoh sent and called Moses and Aaron, saying to them: "I have sinned even until now. The Lord is just. I and my people are impious.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Pray to the Lord, so that the thundering of God and the hail may cease, so that I may release you, and so that you may by no means remain here any longer."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Moses said: "When I have departed from the city, I will extend my hands to the Lord, and the thunders will cease, and the hail will not be, so that you may know that the earth belongs to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> But I know that both you and your servants do not yet fear the Lord God."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And so, the flax and the barley were damaged, because the barley was growing, and the flax was already developing grains.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But the wheat and the spelt were not damaged, because they were late.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Moses, departing from Pharaoh out of the city, reached out his hands toward the Lord. And the thunders and hail ceased, neither did there drop any more rain upon the land.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then Pharaoh, seeing that the rain, and the hail, and the thunders had ceased, added to his sin.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And his heart was weighed down, along with that of his servants, and it was hardened exceedingly. Neither did he release the sons of Israel, just as the Lord had instructed by the hand of Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>