<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall raise the tabernacle of the testimony,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and you shall place the ark in it, and you shall release the veil before it.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And having brought in the table, you shall place the things which were solemnly commanded upon it. The lampstand shall stand with its lamps,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the altar of gold, in which the incense is burned, shall stand before the ark of the testimony. You shall place the tent at the entrance of the tabernacle,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and before it, the altar of holocaust.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The washtub shall stand between the altar and the tabernacle, and you shall fill it with water.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And you shall encompass the atrium and its entrance with hangings.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And, having taken up the oil of unction, you shall anoint the tabernacle along with its articles, so that they may be sanctified.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The altar of holocaust and all its vessels,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the washtub with its base, and all things, you shall consecrate with the oil of unction, so that they may be the Holy of holies.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And you shall bring forward Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the tabernacle of the testimony, and, having washed them with water,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> you shall clothe them in the holy vestments, so that they may minister to me, and so that their unction may accomplish an everlasting priesthood."</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Moses did all that the Lord had instructed.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, in the first month of the second year, on the first day of the month, the tabernacle was put in place.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Moses raised it up, and he positioned the panels as well as the bases and the bars, and he set up the columns,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and he stretched out the roof over the tabernacle, imposing a cover above it, just as the Lord had decreed.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he placed the testimony in the ark, applying the bars beneath, and the oracle above.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when he had brought the ark into the tabernacle, he drew the veil before it, in order to fulfill the commandment of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And he placed the table in the tabernacle of the testimony, at the north side, beyond the veil,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> arranging before it the bread of the presence, just as the Lord had instructed Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he placed the lampstand in the tabernacle of the testimony, away from the table, on the south side,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> setting the lamps in order, according to the precept of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He also positioned the altar of gold under the roof of the testimony, opposite the veil,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and he heaped upon it the incense of aromatics, just as the Lord had commanded Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he positioned the tent at the entrance of the tabernacle of the testimony,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and the altar of holocaust in the vestibule of the testimony, offering the holocaust and the sacrifices upon it, just as the Lord had decreed.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Likewise, he stationed the washtub between the tabernacle of the testimony and the altar, filling it with water.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And Moses and Aaron, along with his sons, washed their hands and feet,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> whenever they would enter the covering of the covenant, and when they approached to the altar, just as the Lord had instructed Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And he raised up the atrium around the tabernacle and the altar, drawing the hanging at its entrance. After all these things were perfected,</p>

<p><a id="c40_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> the cloud covered the tabernacle of the testimony, and the glory of the Lord filled it.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Neither could Moses enter the covering of the covenant: the cloud was covering all things, and the majesty of the Lord was flashing. For the cloud had covered everything.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Whenever the cloud departed from the tabernacle, the sons of Israel set out by their companies.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But if it remained hanging over it, they remained in the same place.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Certainly, the cloud of the Lord lay over the tabernacle by day, and the fire by night, being seen by all the people of Israel throughout all their resting places.</p>

</body>
</html>