<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "You shall also make an altar, for the burning of incense, from setim wood,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> having one cubit in length, and another in width, that is, four equal sides, and two cubits in height. Horns shall proceed from the same.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And you shall clothe it with the purest gold, both its grating and the walls around it, and also the horns. And you shall make for it a crown of gold in a circle,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and two gold rings under the crown on each side, so that the bars may be set in them and the altar may be carried.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Also, you shall make its bars of setim wood, and you shall overlay them with gold.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And you shall set the altar opposite the veil, which hangs in front of the ark of the testimony, before the propitiatory with which the testimony is covered, where I will speak to you.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Aaron shall burn incense upon it, a sweet fragrance, in the morning. When he lights the lamps, he shall burn it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when he assembles them in the evening, he shall burn an everlasting incense before the Lord throughout your generations.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You shall not offer upon it incense of another composition, nor an oblation, nor a victim; neither shall you offer libations.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Aaron shall pray over its horns once a year, with the blood of what was offered for sin. And he shall make atonement over it in your generations. It shall be the Holy of holies to the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> "When you have taken the sum of the sons of Israel, according to their number, each shall give a price for their souls to the Lord, and there will be no scourge among them, when they will be reviewed.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then all those who pass shall give by name: one half shekel, according to the measure at the temple. A shekel has twenty obols. The half part of a shekel shall be offered to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He who has been numbered from twenty years and above shall give the price.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The rich shall not add to the half shekel, and the poor shall diminish nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the money received, which was collected from the sons of Israel, you shall deliver for the uses of the tabernacle of the testimony, so that it may be a memorial of them before the Lord, and he may act favorably toward their souls."</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> "You shall also make a bronze washtub with its base to wash in; and you shall place it between the tabernacle of the testimony and the altar. And when water has been added,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and feet in it:</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> when they enter the tabernacle of the testimony, and when they approach to the altar so as to offer incense to the Lord upon it,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> otherwise, they may die. This shall be an everlasting law to him, and to his offspring, throughout their successions."</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> saying: "Take for yourself aromatics: of the first and best myrrh, five hundred shekels, and of cinnamon half as much, that is, two hundred and fifty shekels; of sweet flag similarly two hundred and fifty,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> but of cassia, five hundred shekels by the weight of the sanctuary, and of the oil of olives the measure of a hin.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And you shall make the holy oil of unction, an ointment composed with the skills of a perfumer,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and with it you shall anoint the tabernacle of the testimony, and the ark of the testament,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and the table with its vessels, and the lampstand and it utensils, the altars of incense</p>

<p><a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and of holocaust, and all the items that pertain to their rituals.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And you shall sanctify everything, and they shall be the Holy of holies. He who will touch them must be sanctified.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> You shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and you shall sanctify them, so that they may exercise the priesthood for me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Likewise, you shall say to the sons of Israel: 'This oil of unction will be holy to me throughout your generations.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The flesh of man shall not be anointed from it, and you shall not make any similar compound, for it has been sanctified and it shall be holy to you.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Whatever man will have composed such a thing and have given it to a stranger, he shall be exterminated from his people.' "</p>

<p><a id="c30_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the Lord said to Moses: "Take to yourself aromatics: stacte, and onycha, galbanum of sweet odor, and the clearest frankincense, all these shall be of equal weight.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And you shall make incense composed with the skills of a perfumer, diligently mixed, and pure, and most worthy of sanctification.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And when you have crushed all these into a very fine powder, you shall place some of it before the tabernacle of the testimony, in the place where I will appear to you. The Holy of holies shall this incense be to you.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> You shall not make such a compound for your own uses, because it is holy to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Whatever man will have made anything similar, so as to thoroughly enjoy its smell, he shall perish from his people."</p>

</body>
</html>