<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "You shall also make an altar of setim wood, which will have five cubits in length, and the same in width, that is, four equal sides, and three cubits in height.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now there shall be horns at the four corners of it, and you shall cover it with brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And you shall make, for its uses, pans to receive the ashes, and tongs as well as small hooks, and receptacles for fire. You shall fabricate all of its vessels from brass,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> along with a grating of brass in the manner of a net. At its four corners there shall be four rings of brass,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> which you shall place under the base of the altar. And the grating will extend even to the middle of the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> You shall also make, for the altar, two bars of setim wood, which you shall cover with layers of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And you shall lead them through the rings, and they will be on both sides of the altar to carry it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You shall not make it solid, but empty and hollow at the interior, just as it was shown to you on the mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You shall also make the atrium of the tabernacle, at the southern part of which, opposite the meridian, there shall be hangings of fine twisted linen: one side extending for one hundred cubits in length.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And you shall make twenty columns with the same number of bases of brass, the heads of which, with their engravings, shall be made of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> In like manner also, throughout the length of the north side, there shall be hangings of one hundred cubits, and twenty columns, and the same number of bases of brass, and their heads with their engravings of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Yet truly, along the width of the atrium that looks out toward the west, there shall be hangings of fifty cubits, and ten columns, and the same number of bases.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Likewise, along the width of the atrium that looks out toward the east, there shall be fifty cubits,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> along which there shall be assigned hangings of fifteen cubits for one side, and three columns, and the same number of bases.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And, along the other side, there shall be hangings occupying fifteen cubits, with three columns and the same number of bases.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Yet truly, at the entrance of the atrium, there shall be made a hanging of twenty cubits, of hyacinth and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, and fine twisted linen, wrought with embroidery. It shall have four columns, with the same number of bases.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> All the columns surrounding the atrium shall be clothed with layers of silver, with silver heads, and with bases of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> In length, the atrium shall occupy one hundred cubits, in width, fifty; the height shall be of five cubits. And it shall be made of fine twisted linen, and it shall have bases of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All the vessels of the tabernacle, for all uses and ceremonies, even to the tent pegs for its atrium, you shall make of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Instruct the sons of Israel so that they may bring you the purest oil of the olive trees, crushed with a pestle, so that a lamp may always burn</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> in the tabernacle of the testimony, outside of the veil that enshrouds the testimony. And Aaron and his sons shall arrange it, so that it may give light in the presence of the Lord, until morning. This shall be a perpetual observance among the sons of Israel, throughout their successions."</p>

</body>
</html>