<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Speak to the sons of Israel, so that they may take the first-fruits to me. You shall accept these from every man who offers of his own accord.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now these are the things that you must accept: Gold, and silver, and brass,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> hyacinth and purple, and twice-dyed scarlet, and fine linen, the hair of goats,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and the skins of rams, dyed red, and skins of violet, and setim wood,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> oil to prepare lights, aromatics as ointments and sweet-smelling incense,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> onyx stones and gems to adorn the ephod as well as the breastplate.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they shall make a sanctuary for me, and I will live in their midst.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> According to exact likeness of the tabernacle, and all of the vessels for its rituals, that I will reveal to you, so shall you make it.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Join together an ark of setim wood, whose length shall hold two and one half cubits; the width, one and one half cubits; the height, likewise, one and one half cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And you shall overlay it with the finest gold, inside and out. And over it, you shall fashion a gold crown all around,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> and four gold rings, which you shall set into the four corners of the ark. Let two rings be on one side and two on the other.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Likewise, you shall make bars of setim wood and cover them with gold.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And you shall put them through the rings that are in the sides of the ark, so that it may be carried on them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> These must always be in the rings, neither shall they ever be drawn out of them.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And you shall place the testimony, which I will give to you, in the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You shall also make a propitiatory of the finest gold. Its length shall hold two and one half cubits, and the width, one and one half cubits.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Likewise, you shall make two Cherubim of formed gold, on both sides of the oracle.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Let one Cherub be on the one side, and the other be on the other.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And let them cover both sides of the propitiatory, spreading their wings and covering the oracle, and let them look out toward one another, their faces being turned toward the propitiatory, with which the ark is to be covered,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> in which you will place the testimony that I will give to you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> From there, I will warn you and speak to you, above the propitiatory and from the middle of the two Cherubim, which will be over the ark of the testimony, about everything that I will command of the sons of Israel through you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> You shall also make a table of setim wood, having two cubits of length, and one cubit in width, and one cubit and one half cubits in height.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And you shall overlay it with the purest gold. And you shall make it with a gold lip all around,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and for the lip itself an engraved crown, four fingers high, and above it another little gold crown.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Likewise, you shall prepare four gold rings and set them in the four corners of the same table, over each foot.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Under the crown, there shall be gold rings, so that the bars may be put through them and the table may be carried.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Likewise, the bars themselves you shall make of setim wood, and surround them with gold, to lift up the table.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> You shall also prepare small cups, as well as bowls, censers, and measuring cups, with which the libations shall be offered, out of the purest gold.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And you shall place upon the table the bread of the presence, in my sight always.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> You shall also make a lampstand, formed from the finest gold, along with its stem and arms, its bowl and little spheres, as well as the lilies proceeding from it.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Six branches shall go out from the sides: three out of one side and three out of the other.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Three bowls, the size of nuts, shall be on each branch, and a little sphere with it, and a lily. And three similar bowls, in the likeness of nuts, shall be on the other branch, and a little sphere with it, and a lily. This shall be the form of the six branches, which are to proceed from the stem.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then, in the lampstand itself, there shall be four bowls, the size of nuts, and each with little spheres and lilies.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Little spheres under two branches in three places, which together make six, shall proceed from one of the stems.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Thus both the little spheres and the branches shall be made out of the same thing: entirely formed from the purest gold.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> You shall also make seven lamps, and you shall place them upon the lampstand, so that they may give light in every direction.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Likewise, the candle snuffers, and the place where the candles will be extinguished, shall be made from the purest gold.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> The entire weight of the candlestick, with all its parts, shall hold one talent of the purest gold.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Observe, and then make it according to the example that was shown to you on the mountain."</p>

</body>
</html>