<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 34</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 34</h2>

<p><a id="c34_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And after this he said: "Cut out for yourself two tablets of stone similar to the first ones, and I will write upon them the words which were held on the tablets that you broke.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Be prepared in the morning, so that you may immediately ascend onto Mount Sinai, and you shall stand with me on the summit of the mountain.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Let no one ascend with you, and do not let anyone be seen throughout the entire mountain. Likewise, do not let the oxen or the sheep pasture up against it."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And so he cut out two tablets of stone, like those that were before. And rising up in the night, he ascended onto Mount Sinai, just as the Lord had instructed him, carrying with him the tablets.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when the Lord had descended in a cloud, Moses stood with him, calling upon the name of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And as he was crossing before him, he said: "The Ruler, the Lord God, merciful and lenient, patient and full of compassion and also truthful,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> who preserves mercy a thousand fold, who takes away iniquity, and wickedness, and also sin; and with you no one, in and of himself, is innocent. You render the iniquity of the fathers to the sons, and also to their descendents to the third and fourth generation."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And hurrying, Moses bowed down prostrate to the ground; and worshiping,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> he said: "If I have found grace in your sight, O Lord, I beg you to walk with us, (for the people are stiff-necked) and take away our iniquities and our sin, and so possess us."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The Lord responded: "I will enter into a pact in the sight of all. I will perform signs which have never been seen on earth, nor among any nation, so that this people, in whose midst you are, may discern the terrible work of the Lord that I will do.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Observe everything that I command you this day. I myself will drive out before your face the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Beware that you do not ever join in friendship with the inhabitants of that land, which may be your ruin.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But destroy their altars, break their statues, and cut down their sacred groves.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Do not be willing to worship any strange god. The jealous Lord is his name. God is a rival.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Do not enter into a pact with the men of those regions, lest, when they will have fornicated with their gods and worshiped their idols, someone might call upon you to eat from what was immolated.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Neither shall you take a wife for your son from their daughters, lest, after they themselves have fornicated, they may cause your sons also to fornicate with their gods.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You shall not make for yourselves any molten gods.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You shall keep the solemnity of unleavened bread. For seven days, you shall eat unleavened bread, just as I instructed you, in the time of the month of what is new. For in the month of springtime you departed from Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> All of the male kind, which open the womb, shall be mine: from all the animals, as much of oxen as of sheep, it shall be mine.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The firstborn of a donkey, you shall redeem with a sheep. But if you will not give a price for it, it shall be slain. The firstborn of your sons you shall redeem. You shall not appear empty in my sight.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For six days you shall work. On the seventh day you shall cease to cultivate and to harvest.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You shall observe the Solemnity of Weeks with the first-fruits of the grain from the harvest of your wheat, and a Solemnity when the time of the year returns and everything is stored away.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Three times a year, all your males shall appear in the sight of the Almighty, the Lord God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For when I will have taken away the nations before your face, and enlarged your borders, no one shall lie in wait against your land when you will go up to appear in the sight of the Lord your God, three times a year.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> You shall not immolate the blood of my victim over leaven; and there shall not remain, in the morning, any of the victim of the Solemnity of the Passover.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The first of the fruits of your land you shall offer in the house of the Lord your God. You shall not boil a young goat in the milk of its mother."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And the Lord said to Moses, "Write these words to you, through which I have formed a covenant, both with you and with Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c34_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore, he was in that place with the Lord for forty days and forty nights; he did not eat bread and he did not drink water, and he wrote on the tablets the ten words of the covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when Moses descended from Mount Sinai, he held the two tablets of the testimony, and he did not know that his face was radiant from the sharing of words with the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then Aaron and the sons of Israel, seeing that the face of Moses was radiant, were afraid to approach close by.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And being called by him, they turned back, both Aaron and the leaders of the assembly. And after he had spoken to them,</p>

<p><a id="c34_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> all the sons of Israel also now came to him. And he instructed them in all the things that he had heard from the Lord on Mount Sinai.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And having completed these words, he placed a veil over his face.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But when he entered to the Lord and was speaking with him, he took it off, until he exited. And then he spoke to the sons of Israel all that had been commanded to him.</p>

<p><a id="c34_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And they saw that the face of Moses, when he came out, was radiant, but he covered his face again, whenever he spoke to them.</p>

</body>
</html>