<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Exodus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Exodus 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Moses was pasturing the sheep of his father-in-law Jethro, a priest of Midian. And when he had driven the flock into the interior of the desert, he came to the mountain of God, Horeb.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire from the midst of a bush. And he saw that the bush was burning and was not burnt.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore, Moses said, "I will go and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the Lord, discerning that he proceeded on to see it, called to him from the midst of the bush, and he said, "Moses, Moses." And he responded, "Here I am."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said: "Lest you should approach here, remove the shoes from your feet. For the place on which you stand is holy ground."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said, "I am the God of your father: the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob." Moses hid his face, for he dared not look directly at God.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the Lord said to him: "I have seen the affliction of my people in Egypt, and I have heard their outcry because of the harshness of those who are over the works.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And knowing their sorrow, I have descended in order to free them from the hands of the Egyptians, and to lead them from that land into a good and spacious land, into a land which flows with milk and honey, to the places of the Canaanite, and Hittite, and Amorite, and Perizzite, and Hivite, and Jebusite.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And so, the outcry of the sons of Israel has come to me. And I have seen their affliction, with which they are oppressed by the Egyptians.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But come, and I will send you to Pharaoh, so that you may lead my people, the sons of Israel, out of Egypt."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Moses said to God, "Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and that I should lead the sons of Israel out of Egypt?"</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he said to him: "I will be with you. And you will have this as a sign that I have sent you: When you will have brought my people out of Egypt, you will offer sacrifice to God upon this mountain."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Moses said to God: "Behold, I will go to the sons of Israel, and I will say to them, 'The God of your fathers has sent me to you.' If they say to me, 'What is his name?' What shall I say to them?"</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> God said to Moses, "I AM WHO AM." He said: "Thus shall you say to the sons of Israel: 'HE WHO IS has sent me to you.' "</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And God said again to Moses: "Thus shall you say to the sons of Israel: 'The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you.' This is the name for me in eternity, and this is my memorial from generation to generation.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Go and gather together the elders of Israel, and you shall say to them: 'The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying: When visiting, I have visited you, and I have seen all that has befallen you in Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And I have spoken in order to lead you out of the affliction of Egypt, into the land of the Canaanite, and Hittite, and Amorite, and Perizzite, and Hivite, and Jebusite, into a land flowing with milk and honey.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they shall hear your voice. And you shall enter, you and the elders of Israel, to the king of Egypt, and you shall say to him: 'The Lord God of the Hebrews has called us. We shall go three days' journey into the wilderness, in order to offer sacrifice to the Lord our God.'</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But I know that the king of Egypt will not release you, unless you go out by a powerful hand.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For I will extend my hand, and I will strike Egypt with all my wonders that I will do in the midst of them. After these things, he will release you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And I will grant favor to this people in the sight of the Egyptians. And so, when you go forth, you shall not go out empty.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But every woman shall ask of her neighbor and of her hostess vessels of silver and of gold, as well as garments. And you shall set them upon your sons and daughters, and you shall despoil Egypt."</p>

</body>
</html>