<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 21</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 21</h2>

<p><a id="c21_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The Lord also said to Moses: Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and you shall say to them: Do not allow a priest to be contaminated by the death of his citizens,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> except only by his blood-relatives and near-relatives, that is, by a father or mother, or by a son or daughter, or also a brother,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> or a virgin sister, who is not married to a husband.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But not even by the leader of his people shall he be contaminated.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Neither shall they shave their head or their beard, and they shall not make incisions in their flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They shall be holy to their God, and they shall not pollute his name. For they offer the incense of the Lord and the bread of their God, and because of this they shall be holy.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They shall not take as a wife a promiscuous woman, or a prostitute, or her who has been repudiated by her husband. For they are consecrated to their God,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and they offer the bread of the presence. Therefore, let them be holy, for I also am holy: the Lord, who sanctifies them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If the daughter of a priest will have been taken into prostitution, and will have violated the name of her father, she shall be consumed by fire.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The high priest, that is, the priest who is the greatest among his brothers, upon whose head the oil of anointing has been poured, and whose hands have been consecrated for the priesthood, and who has been vested with the holy vestments: he shall not expose his head; he shall not rend his vestments.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he shall not enter to any dead body whatsoever; likewise, not even by his father or mother shall he be contaminated.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Neither shall he exit from the holy places, lest he pollute the Sanctuary of the Lord. For the oil of the holy anointing of his God is upon him. I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He shall take a virgin as his wife.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But a widow, or one who has been repudiated or defiled, or also a mistress, he shall not accept, but only a maiden from among his own people.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He shall not mingle the stock of his family with the common people of his nation. For I am the Lord, who sanctifies him.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c21_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Say to Aaron: A man from your offspring, throughout their families, who has a blemish, shall not offer the bread to his God.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Neither shall he approach to minister to him: if he is blind, if he is lame, if he is small, or large, or has a crooked nose,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> if his foot or hand is broken,</p>

<p><a id="c21_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> if he has a bulging back or bleary eyes, or if he has a white spot in his eye, or a chronic scab, or a skin disease on his body, or a hernia.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Anyone from the offspring of Aaron, the priest, who has a blemish, shall not approach to offer sacrifices to the Lord, nor the bread to his God.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Nevertheless, he shall eat from the loaves which are offered in the Sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But even so, he may not enter within the veil, nor approach to the altar. For he has a blemish, and he must not contaminate my Sanctuary. I am the Lord, who sanctifies them.</p>

<p><a id="c21_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, Moses spoke to Aaron, and to his sons, and to all of Israel, everything that had been commanded to him.</p>

</body>
</html>