<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: I am the Lord your God.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> You shall not act according to the custom of the land of Egypt, in which you have lived; nor shall you behave according to the habit of the region of Canaan, into which I will lead you; neither shall you walk in their ordinances.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You shall accomplish my judgments, and you shall observe my precepts, and you shall walk in them. I am the Lord your God.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Keep my laws and judgments; when a man does these, he shall live by them. I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> No man shall approach her who is a close blood-relative to him, so as to uncover her nakedness. I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You shall not expose the nakedness of your father, or the nakedness of your mother. She is your mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You shall not expose the nakedness of your father's wife; for it is the nakedness of your father.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, whether from father or from mother, whether she was born at home or abroad.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter, or your daughter's daughter; for it is your own nakedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, whom she bore to your father, and who is your sister.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You shall not expose the nakedness of your father's sister; for she is the flesh of your father.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, because she is the flesh of your mother.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother, nor shall you approach his wife, who is joined to you by affinity.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law, for she is your son's wife; neither shall you expose her dishonor.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife; for it is the nakedness of your brother.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You shall not uncover the nakedness of your wife and her daughter. You shall not take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter, so as to uncover her dishonor; for they are her flesh, and such sexual intercourse is incest.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> You shall not take your wife's sister as a rival mistress; nor shall you uncover her nakedness, while your wife is still living.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> You shall not approach a woman who is undergoing menstruation, nor shall you uncover her foulness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You shall not have sexual intercourse with your neighbor's wife, nor shall you be defiled by the mingling of seed.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You shall not give some of your seed to be consecrated to the idol Moloch, nor to pollute the name of your God. I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You shall not commit sexual acts with a male, in place of sexual intercourse with a female, for this is an abomination.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> You shall not commit sexual acts with any animal, nor shall you be defiled by it. A woman shall not lie down with a beast, nor commit sexual acts with it; for this is wickedness.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Do not pollute yourselves with any of these things, by which all of the nations, which I will cast out in your sight, have been contaminated</p>

<p><a id="c18_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and by which the land has been polluted. I will visit the wickedness of the land, so that it may vomit out its inhabitants.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Keep my ordinances and judgments, and do not do any of these abominations: the native born, as well as the settler, who sojourns among you.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> For all these detestable things were done by the inhabitants of the land who were here before you, and they have polluted it.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore, beware, lest in a similar manner, it may vomit you out as well, if you do these same things, just as it vomited out the people who were before you.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Every soul who shall commit any of these abominations shall perish from the midst of his people.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Keep my commandments. Do not be willing to do the things which have been done by those who were before you, and do not be polluted by these things. I am the Lord your God.</p>

</body>
</html>