<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Likewise, this is the law of the sacrifice for a transgression. It is the Holy of holies.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, where the holocaust is immolated, the victim for a transgression shall also be slain. Its blood shall be poured out all around the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They shall offer from it: the rump, and the fat that covers the vital organs,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> the two little kidneys, and the fat that is near the sides, and the mesh of the liver with the little kidneys.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the priest shall burn them upon the altar. It is the incense of the Lord on behalf of a transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Every male of priestly descent shall feed on this flesh in a holy place, because it is the Holy of holies.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Just as the sacrifice for sin is offered, so also for a transgression; one law shall be for both sacrifices. It shall belong to the priest who offers it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The priest who offers the victim of holocaust shall have its skin.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And every sacrifice of fine wheat flour which is baked in the oven, and whatever is prepared on the oven grating or in the frying pan, shall be for the priest who offers it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Whether these will be sprinkled with oil, or left dry, an equal measure shall be divided to each one of the sons of Aaron.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> This is the law of the victim of peace offerings, which is offered to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If the oblation will be an act for giving thanks, they shall offer bread without leaven sprinkled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and fine wheat flour fried, and cakes sprinkled and mixed with oil,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and also, leavened bread with the sacrifice of thanksgiving, which is immolated for peace offerings.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Of these, one shall be offered to the Lord as the first-fruits, and one shall be for the priest who will pour out the blood of the victim.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The flesh of it shall be eaten on the same day; neither shall any of it remain until morning.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If anyone, by a vow or of his own accord, will have offered a sacrifice, it shall be eaten in a similar manner on the same day. But then if any of it will have remained until tomorrow, it is lawful to eat it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then whatever will be found on the third day shall be consumed with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If anyone will have eaten from the flesh of the victim of peace offerings on the third day, the oblation will be nullified; neither will it benefit the one who offered it. But instead, whatever soul will contaminate itself with such foods will be guilty of a betrayal.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The flesh that has touched anything unclean shall not be eaten, but it shall be burnt with fire. He that is clean will feed on it.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If a soul which is polluted will have eaten from the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which is offered to the Lord, he shall perish from his people.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And whoever will have touched the uncleanness of man, or of beast, or of anything which is able to defile, and who will have eaten from this kind of flesh, shall be cut off from his people.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Say to the sons of Israel: The fat of a sheep, and of an ox, and of a goat you shall not eat.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The fat of a carcass that has died on its own, or of an animal that has been seized by a wild beast, you shall have for various uses.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If anyone will have eaten the fat which ought to be offered as a burnt sacrifice of the Lord, he shall perish from his people.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Likewise, you shall not take as food the blood of any animals at all, whether of birds or beasts.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Every soul that will have eaten blood shall perish from his people.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Speak to the sons of Israel, saying: Whoever offers a victim of peace offerings to the Lord, let him also offer at the same time a sacrifice, that is, its libations.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> He shall hold in his hands the fat of the victim, and the breast. And when he will have offered and consecrated both to the Lord, he shall deliver them to the priest,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> who shall burn the fat upon the altar. But the breast shall be for Aaron and his sons.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Likewise also, the right shoulder of the victim of peace offerings shall fall to the priest as first-fruits.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Among the sons of Aaron, whoever will have offered the blood and the fat, the same one shall also have the right shoulder for his portion.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> So then, the breast that is lifted up, and the shoulder that is separated, I have taken from the sons of Israel, from their victims of peace offerings, and I have given these to Aaron the priest and to his sons, as a law in perpetuity, from all the people of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> This is the anointing of Aaron and his sons, by the ceremonies of the Lord, in the day when Moses offered them, so that they may fulfill the priesthood,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and this is what the Lord instructed to be given to them by the sons of Israel, as a perpetual observance in their generations.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> This is the law of the holocaust, and of the sacrifice for sin, and for transgression, and for consecration, and for the victims of peace offerings,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> which the Lord appointed to Moses on mount Sinai, when he commanded the sons of Israel to offer their oblations to the Lord in the desert of Sinai.</p>

</body>
</html>