<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But if his oblation will be a sacrifice of peace offerings, and he wishes to offer it from the oxen, whether male or female, he shall offer what is immaculate, in the sight of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he shall place his hand upon the head of his victim, which shall be immolated at the entrance of the tabernacle of the testimony. And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall pour the blood all around the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they shall offer from the sacrifice of peace offerings, as an oblation to the Lord: the fat which covers the vital organs, and whatever fat is interior,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> the two kidneys with the fat that covers the sides, and the mesh of the liver with the two little kidneys.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they shall burn them upon the altar as a holocaust, placing fire under the wood, as an oblation of a most sweet odor to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Yet truly, if his oblation and the sacrifice of peace offerings will be from the sheep, whether he will offer a male or a female, they shall be immaculate.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> If he will offer a lamb in the sight of the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> he shall place his hand upon the head of the victim. And it shall be immolated at the vestibule of the tabernacle of the testimony. And the sons of Aaron shall pour its blood all around the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they shall offer from the victim of peace offerings, as a sacrifice to the Lord: the fat, and the entire rump</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> with the kidneys, and the fat that covers the abdomen, and all the vital organs, and both the little kidneys with the fat that is near the sides, and the mesh of the liver with the little kidneys.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the priest shall burn them upon the altar, as fuel for the fire and as an oblation of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If his oblation will be a goat, and he will offer it to the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> he shall place his hand upon its head, and he shall immolate it at the entrance of the tabernacle of the testimony. And the sons of Aaron shall pour its blood all around the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they shall take from it, to feed the Lord's fire: the fat which covers the abdomen, and that which covers all the vital organs,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> the two little kidneys with the mesh that is over them near the sides, and the fat of the liver with the little kidneys.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the priest shall burn them upon the altar, as nourishment for the fire and as a most sweet odor. All the fat shall be for the Lord;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> by a perpetual law, in your generations and in all of your habitations, neither blood nor fat shall you eat at all.</p>

</body>
</html>