<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> When a soul will offer an oblation of sacrifice to the Lord, his oblation shall be of fine wheat flour, and he shall pour oil over it, and he shall set down frankincense,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and he shall bring it to the sons of Aaron, the priests. One of them shall take a handful of the flour with oil, as well as all the frankincense, and he shall place it as a memorial upon the altar, as a most sweet odor to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then what will remain of the sacrifice shall be for Aaron and his sons, the Holy of holies from the oblations of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But when you will offer a sacrifice baked in the oven from fine wheat flour, specifically: loaves without leaven, sprinkled with oil, and unleavened wafers, rubbed with oil:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> if your oblation will be from the frying pan, of flour tempered with oil and without leaven,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> you shall divide it into little pieces and pour oil over it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if the sacrifice will be from the oven grating, equally the fine wheat flour shall be sprinkled with oil.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> When you are offering it to the Lord, you shall deliver it into the hands of the priest.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when he has offered it, he shall take a memorial from the sacrifice and burn it upon the altar as a sweet odor to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But whatever is left shall be for Aaron and his sons, the Holy of holies from the oblations of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Every oblation that is offered to the Lord shall be made without leaven; neither shall any leaven or honey be burned with the sacrifice to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> You shall offer only the first-fruits of these along with the gifts. Yet truly, these shall not be placed upon the altar as an odor of sweetness.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Whatever sacrifice you will offer, you shall season it with salt; neither shall you take away the salt of the covenant of your God from your sacrifice. In all your oblations, you shall offer salt.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> But if you will offer a gift of the first-fruits of your grain to the Lord, from ears of grain still green, you shall parch it at the fire, and break it open in the manner of meal. And so shall you offer your first-fruits to the Lord:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> pouring oil over it, and imposing frankincense, because it is an oblation of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> From this, the priest shall burn, as a memorial of the gift, a portion of the cracked grain and the oil, as well as all of the frankincense.</p>

</body>
</html>