<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> If a soul will have sinned, and heard the voice of one testifying under oath, and he is a witness because either he has seen it himself, or he is aware of it: if he does not reveal it, he shall carry his iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The soul that will have touched anything unclean, either that which has been killed by a beast, or that which has died on its own, or any other creeping thing, and will have forgotten its uncleanness, he is guilty and has committed a transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And if he will have touched anything from the uncleanness of man, according to every kind of impurity by which he may be defiled, and having forgotten it, afterwards realizes it, he shall be guilty of committing a transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The soul who swears and offers from his own lips that he would do either evil or good, and who will have bound the same with an oath and with his own words, and, having forgotten it, afterwards understands his transgression,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> let him do penance for his sin,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and let him offer from the flocks a female lamb or a she-goat, and the priest shall pray for him and for his sin.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if he is not able to offer a beast, let him offer two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the Lord, one for sin, and the other for a holocaust.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he shall give them to the priest, who, offering the first for sin, shall twist back its head to the little wings, so that it adheres to the neck and is not entirely broken off.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he shall sprinkle some of its blood at the side of the altar. But whatever will remain, he shall cause it to drip down to the base, because it is for sin.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet truly, the other he shall burn as a holocaust, just as is usually done. And the priest shall pray for him, and for his sin, and he shall be released from it.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But if his hand is unable to offer two turtledoves or two young pigeons, he shall offer, for his sin, the tenth part of an ephah of fine wheat flour. He shall not put oil in it, nor place upon it any frankincense, because it is for sin.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he shall deliver it to the priest, who shall take a handful of it, and shall burn it upon the altar as a memorial for him who offered it,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> praying for him and making atonement. Yet truly, the remaining part he himself shall have as a gift.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> If a soul, by mistake, shall have transgressed the ceremonies in those things that are sanctified to the Lord, he shall offer for his offense an immaculate ram from the flocks, such as can be bought for two shekels, according to the weight of the Sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he shall make restitution for the damage that he has brought, and he shall add a fifth part more, delivering it to the priest, who shall pray for him while offering the ram, and he shall be released from it.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If a soul will have sinned through ignorance, and will have done one of those things which the law of the Lord prohibits, and, being guilty of sin, understands his iniquity,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> he shall offer from the flocks an immaculate ram to the priest, according to the measure and estimation of the sin, who shall pray for him, because he did it unknowingly, and he shall be released from it,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> because by mistake he transgressed against the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>