<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Say to the sons of Israel: These are the animals that you ought to eat out of all the living things of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> All that has a divided hoof, and that chews over again, among the cattle, you shall eat.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But whatever certainly chews over again, but has a hoof that is not divided, such as the camel and others, these you shall not eat, and you shall consider them to be among what is unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The rock rabbit which chews over again, and whose hoof is not divided, is unclean,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and so also is the hare, for it too chews over again, yet its hoof is not divided,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and also the swine, which, though its hoof is divided, does not chew over again.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The flesh of these you shall not eat, nor shall you touch their carcasses, because they are unclean to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> These are the things that breed in the waters, and which it is lawful to eat. All that has little fins and scales, as much in the sea, as in the rivers and ponds, you shall eat.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But whatever does not have fins and scales, of those things that live and move in the waters, shall be abominable to you,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and detestable; their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall avoid.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> All that does not have fins and scales in the waters shall be polluted.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These are those things among the birds which you must not eat, and which are to be avoided by you: the eagle, and the griffin, and the osprey,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the kite, as well as the vulture, according to their kind.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and all that is of the raven kind, according to their likeness,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> the ostrich, and the owl, and the gull, and the hawk, according to its kind,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the owl, and the sea bird, and the ibis,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and the swan, and the pelican, and the marsh hen,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> the heron, and the plover according to its kind, the crested hoopoe, and also the bat.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Of all that flies, whatever steps upon four feet shall be abominable to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But whatever certainly walks upon four feet, and also has longer legs behind, with which it hops upon the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> you shall eat, such as the beetle in its kind, and the cricket, and grasshopper, and the locust, each one according to its kind.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But among flying things, whatever has only four feet shall be detestable to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And whoever will have touched their carcasses shall be defiled, and he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And if it will be necessary to carry any of these dead things, he shall wash his clothes, and he shall be unclean until the sun sets.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Every animal that certainly has a hoof, but which is not divided, nor does it chew over again, shall be unclean. And whoever will have touched it shall be contaminated.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whatever walks upon its hands, out of all the animals that advance on all fours, shall be unclean. Whoever will have touched their carcasses shall be polluted until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And whoever will have carried this kind of carcass shall wash his clothes, and he shall be unclean until evening. For all these are unclean to you.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Likewise, these shall be considered among the polluted things, out of all that moves upon the earth: the weasel, and the mouse, and the crocodile, each one according to its kind,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> the shrew, and the chameleon, and the gecko, and the lizard, and the mole.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> All these are unclean. Whoever will have touched their carcasses shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And anything upon which something from their carcasses will have fallen shall be defiled, whether it is a vessel of wood, or a garment, or skins, or haircloths, or anything by which work is done. These shall be dipped in water and shall be defiled until evening, but then afterwards these shall be clean.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> But an earthen vessel, into which something from these will fall, shall be defiled; and therefore it is to be broken.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Any of the foods that you eat, if water from such a vessel will have been poured upon it, it shall be unclean. And every liquid which one may drink from such a vessel shall be unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And if anything from among these kinds of dead things has fallen upon it, it shall be unclean, whether it be an oven, or a pot with feet, these shall be unclean and shall be destroyed.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Yet truly, fountains and cisterns, and all reservoirs of water shall be clean. Whoever will have touched their carcasses shall be defiled.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> If it falls upon seed grain, it shall not defile it.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> But if anyone has poured water upon the seed grain, and afterwards it was touched by the carcasses, it shall be immediately defiled.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> If any animals will have died, from which it is lawful for you to eat, whoever will have touched its carcass shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And whoever will have eaten or carried anything of these shall wash his clothes, and he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> All that creeps across the earth shall be abominable, neither shall it taken up as food.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Whatever advances by four feet upon the chest, or that has many feet, or that drags across the soil, you shall not eat, because it is abominable.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Do not be willing to contaminate your souls, nor shall you touch any of these, lest you become unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> For I am the Lord your God. Be holy, for I am Holy. Do not pollute your souls with any creeping thing, which moves across the land.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> For I am the Lord, who led you away from the land of Egypt, so that I would be your God; you shall be holy, for I am Holy.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> This is the law of animals and flying things, and of every living soul that moves in the waters or creeps upon the land,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> so that you may know the difference between clean and unclean, and so that you may know what you ought to eat, and what you ought to refuse.</p>

</body>
</html>