<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak to the sons of Israel, and say to them: The man who undergoes a flow of seed shall be unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And then he shall be judged subject to this fault, if a filthy fluid, at each moment, adheres to his flesh and gathers there.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Every bed on which he sleeps shall be unclean, and every place where he sits.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> If any man has touched his couch, he shall wash his clothes, and having washed with water, he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If he will have sat where that man has sat, he shall also wash his clothes, and having washed with water, he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Whoever has touched his flesh shall wash his clothes, and having washed with water, he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If such a man has cast his spittle upon him who is clean, he shall wash his clothes, and having washed with water, he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The saddle on which he has sat shall be unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And whatever has been under him who has undergone a flow of seed shall be polluted until evening. Whoever carries any of these things shall wash his clothes, and having washed with water, he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All whom such a one has touched, not having washed his hands before, shall wash his clothes, and having washed with water, he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If he has touched an earthen vessel, it shall be broken. But if it is a wooden vessel, it shall be washed with water.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If he who suffers from this affliction will have been healed, he shall number seven days after his cleansing, and having washed his clothes and his entire body in living water, he shall be clean.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then, on the eighth day, he shall take two turtledoves or two young pigeons, and he shall advance, in the sight of the Lord, toward the door of the tabernacle of the testimony, and he shall give these to the priest,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> who shall offer one for sin, and the other as a holocaust. And he shall pray for him before the Lord, so that he may be cleansed from the flow of his seed.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> A man from whom the seed of sexual intercourse goes out shall wash his entire body with water, and he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The garment or skin which he will have, he shall wash with water, and it shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The woman with whom he has had sexual intercourse shall be washed with water, and she shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The woman who, at the return of the month, undergoes the flow of blood shall be separated for seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> All who will touch her shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And everything on which she sleeps or sits, in the days of her separation, shall be polluted.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Whoever will have touched her bed shall wash his clothes, and having washed himself with water, he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Anyone who will have touched any item on which she has sat shall wash his clothes, and having washed himself with water, he shall be polluted until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If a man has sexual intercourse with her in the time of her monthly flow of blood, he shall be unclean for seven days, and every bed on which he sleeps shall be polluted.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The woman who undergoes a flow of blood many days beyond her time of menstruation, or whose blood does not cease to flow after the menstrual blood, as long as she is subject to this affliction, she shall be unclean, just as if she were in her time of menstruation.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Every bed on which she sleeps, and every item on which she sits, shall be polluted.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Whoever will have touched these shall wash his clothes, and having washed himself with water, he shall be unclean until evening.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> If the blood has stopped and has ceased to flow, she shall number seven days for her purification,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and on the eighth day she shall offer for herself, to the priest, two turtledoves or two young pigeons, at the door of the tabernacle of the testimony.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And he shall offer one for sin, and the other as a holocaust, and he shall pray for her before the Lord, and for the flow of her uncleanness.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, you shall teach the sons of Israel to be cautious of uncleanness, so that they may not die in their filth, when they will have polluted my tabernacle, which is among them.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> This is the law of him who undergoes a flow of seed, or who is polluted by sexual intercourse,</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> and of her who is separated in the time of menstruation, or who has a continual flow of blood, and of the man who sleeps with her.</p>

</body>
</html>