<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 13</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 13</h2>

<p><a id="c13_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c13_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The man in whose skin or flesh there will have arisen a diverse color, or a pustule, or something that seems to shine, which is the mark of leprosy, shall be brought to Aaron the priest, or to anyone you wish among his sons.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And if he sees that leprosy is in his skin, and that the hair has turned a white color, and that the place where the leprosy appears is lower than the rest of the skin and the flesh, then it is the mark of leprosy, and at his judgment he shall be separated.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> But if there will be a shining whiteness in the skin, but it is not lower than the rest of the flesh, and the hair is of unaffected color, the priest shall seclude him for seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And on the seventh day he shall examine him, and if the leprosy certainly has not increased further, and has not spread itself in the skin, he shall seclude him again, for another seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And on the seventh day, he shall evaluate him. If the leprosy has become obscured, and has not increased in the skin, he shall declare him clean, because it is a scab. And the man shall wash his clothes, and he shall be clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if the leprosy increases again, after he was seen by the priest and restored to cleanness, he shall be brought to him,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and he shall be condemned of uncleanness.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If the mark of leprosy has been in a man, he shall be brought to the priest,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and he shall look upon him. And when there is a white color in the skin, and it has an altered appearance in its hair, and also the same flesh seems alive,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> it shall be judged a chronic leprosy, which has grown into the skin. And so the priest shall declare him contaminated, and he shall not seclude him, because he is clearly unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if the leprosy will have flourished, coursing through the skin, and will have covered all the skin from the head even to the feet, whatever falls under the sight of the eyes,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> the priest shall examine him, and he shall judge that the leprosy that he possesses is very clean, because it has all turned to whiteness, and for this reason the man shall be clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, when the living flesh shall appear in him,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> then by the judgment of the priest he shall be polluted, and he shall be considered to be among the unclean. For the live flesh, if it is spotted with leprosy, is unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if again it will have turned into whiteness, and will have covered the entire man,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the priest shall examine him, and he shall discern him to be clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But when there has been an ulcer in the flesh and the skin, and it has healed,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and in the place of the ulcer, there appears a white or reddish scar, the man shall be brought to the priest.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he will have seen the place of the leprosy lower than the rest of the flesh, and that the hair has turned white, he shall declare him contaminated. For the plague of leprosy has arisen from the ulcer.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But if the hair is of the usual color, and the scar is somewhat obscure and is not lower than the nearby flesh, he shall seclude him for seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And if it will have certainly increased, he shall judge him to have leprosy.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But if it stays in its place, it is the scar of an ulcer, and the man shall be clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> But if flesh and skin has been burned by fire, and, having been healed, now has a white or red scar,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> the priest shall examine it, and if he sees that it has turned white, and that its place is lower than the rest of the skin, he shall declare him contaminated, for the mark of leprosy has arisen in the scar.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But if the color of the hair has not been changed, nor is the mark lower than the rest of the flesh, and the leprosy itself appears to be somewhat obscure, he shall seclude him for seven days,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and on the seventh day he shall evaluate him. If the leprosy will have increased further in the skin, he shall declare him contaminated.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But if the whiteness stays in its place and is not very clear, it is the mark of a burn, and for this reason he shall be declared clean, because it is only the scar from a burn.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> If leprosy will have sprung up in the head or the beard of a man or woman, the priest shall look upon them,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and if the place is certainly lower than the rest of the flesh, and the hair is golden, and thinner than usual, he shall declare them contaminated, because it is the leprosy of the head and the beard.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But if he sees that the place of the spot is equal with the nearby flesh, and that the hair is black, he shall seclude him for seven days,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> and on the seventh day he shall examine it. If the spot has not increased, and the hair has kept its color, and the place of the mark is equal with the rest of the flesh,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> the man shall be shaven, except in the place of the spot, and he shall be secluded for another seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> On the seventh day, if the mark seems to have stayed in its place, and it is not lower than the rest of the flesh, he shall declare him clean, and, his clothes having been washed, he shall be clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> But if, after his cleansing, the spot will have increased again in the skin,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> he shall no longer inquire as to whether the hair has turned yellow, because he is plainly unclean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Furthermore, if the spot has not increased, and the hair is black, let him know that the man is healed: and let him confidently pronounce him clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> If a whiteness will have appeared in the skin of a man or a woman,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> the priest shall examine them. If he detects an obscured whiteness shining in the skin, may he know that it is not leprosy, but a white-colored blemish, and that the man is clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The man whose hair falls off of his head is bald and clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And if the hair falls off of his forehead, he is bald in front and clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> But if in the bald head or bald forehead there has arisen a white or reddish color,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> and the priest will have seen this, he shall condemn him without doubt of leprosy, which has arisen in the baldness.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Therefore, whoever will have been spotted by leprosy, and who has been separated at the judgment of the priest,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> shall have his clothes unstitched, his head bare, his mouth covered with a cloth, and he himself shall cry out that he is contaminated and filthy.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> The entire time that he is a leper and unclean he shall live alone outside the camp.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> A woolen or linen garment that will have held the leprosy,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> in the main fibers or in any of the threads, or certainly in a skin, or whatever has been made from a skin,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> if it has been infected with a white or red spot, it shall be considered to be leprosy, and it shall be shown to the priest.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> And he, having examined it, shall close it up for seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And on the seventh day, having looked at it again, if he detects an increase, it is a persistent leprosy; he shall judge the garment to be polluted, along with everything with which it has been found.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And because of this, it shall be burned in flames.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> But if he will have seen that it has not increased,</p>

<p><a id="c13_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> he shall instruct them, and they shall wash whatever has the leprosy in it, and he shall close it up for another seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And when he will have seen that the former appearance has not returned, even if the leprosy has not increased, he shall judge it to be unclean, and he shall burn it with fire, for the leprosy has been infused in the exterior of the garment, or throughout the whole.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> But if the place of the leprosy has become somewhat darker, after the garment has been washed, he shall tear it away, and separate it from the part that is sound.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> But if, after this, there will appear in those places which before were immaculate, a flying and wandering leprosy, it must be burned with fire.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> If it will have ceased, he shall wash with water the parts which are pure for a second time, and they shall be clean.</p>

<p><a id="c13_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> This is the law about leprosy for any woolen or linen garment, in the weave and in the threads, and for all items made from skins, how it must be declared either clean or contaminated.</p>

</body>
</html>