<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Instruct the sons of Israel, so that they may bring to you clear oil from the purest olives, in order to supply the lamps continuously</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> outside the veil of the testimony in the tabernacle of the covenant. And Aaron shall place these, from evening until morning, before the Lord, as a perpetual worship and ritual in your generations.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> They shall be placed upon the most pure candlestick in the sight of the Lord always.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> You shall also receive fine wheat flour, and you shall bake twelve loaves from it, each loaf of which shall have two-tenths.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And you shall arrange them, six on each side, upon the most pure table before the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And you shall place upon them the clearest frankincense, so that the bread may be a memorial of oblation for the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> On each Sabbath, they shall be changed before the Lord, having been received from the sons of Israel as an everlasting covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they shall be for Aaron and his sons, so that they may eat these in the holy place; for it is the Holy of holies from the sacrifices of the Lord, as a perpetual right.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then, behold, the son of an Israelite woman, whom she had born of an Egyptian man among the sons of Israel, going out, was quarreling in the camp with a man of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when he had blasphemed the name, and had cursed it, he was led to Moses. (Now his mother was called Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri from the tribe of Dan.)</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they sent him to prison, until they might know what the Lord would command,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> who spoke to Moses,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> saying: Lead away the blasphemer beyond the camp, and let all who heard him place their hands upon his head, and let the entire people stone him.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And you shall say to the sons of Israel: The man who curses his God shall bear his sin,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and whoever will have blasphemed the name of the Lord shall be put to death. The entire multitude shall overwhelm him with stones, whether he be a citizen or a sojourner. Whoever blasphemes the name of the Lord shall be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Whoever will have struck and killed a man shall be put to death.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Whoever will have struck down an animal shall repay its equivalent, that is, a life for a life.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Whoever will have inflicted a blemish on any of his citizens, just as he has done, so shall it be done to him:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, shall he repay. Whatever degree of blemish he has inflicted, so shall he be compelled to suffer.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whoever strikes down a beast, shall repay another. Whoever strikes a man shall be punished.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Let there be equal judgment among you, whether it is a sojourner or a citizen who will have sinned. For I am the Lord your God.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Moses spoke to the sons of Israel. And they led away him who had blasphemed, beyond the camp, and they overwhelmed him with stones. And the sons of Israel did just as the Lord had instructed Moses.</p>

</body>
</html>