<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Leviticus 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Leviticus 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: The man who will have made a vow and espoused his soul to God shall give the price according to the estimation.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If it is a male from twenty years to sixty years, he shall give fifty shekels of silver, by the measure of the Sanctuary;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> if it is a woman, thirty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But from the fifth year until the twentieth, a male shall give twenty shekels; a female, ten.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> From one month until the fifth year, for a male, five shekels shall be given; for a female, three.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> At sixty years and beyond, a male shall give fifteen shekels; a female, ten.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If he is poor, and he does not have the means to pay the estimation, he shall stand before the priest, and however much he will value him and see that he is able to pay, so much shall he give.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But an animal which could be immolated to the Lord, if anyone has vowed it, shall be holy,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and it cannot be exchanged, that is, neither better for worse, nor worse for better. And if he has exchanged it, both that which was exchanged, and that for which it was exchanged shall be consecrated to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> An unclean animal which could not be sacrificed to the Lord, if anyone has vowed it, shall be led before the priest,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> who, judging whether it is either good or bad, shall set the price.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But if he who offers it was willing to give, he shall add a fifth part above the estimation.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If a man has vowed his house, and he has sanctified it to the Lord, the priest shall examine it, whether it is good or bad, and it shall be sold according to the price which he will have established.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But if he who vowed it was willing to redeem it, he shall give a fifth part beyond the estimation, and he shall have the house.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But if he has vowed a field of his possession, and has consecrated it to the Lord, the price shall be estimated according to the measure of the seed. If the land would be sown with thirty measures of barley, then let it be sold for fifty shekels of silver.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> If he has vowed his field beginning from the current year of Jubilee, as much as it may be worth, so shall it be estimated.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But if, after some amount of time, the priest shall evaluate the money according to the number of years that remain until the Jubilee, then the price shall be reduced.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But if he who had vowed it, was willing to redeem his field, he shall add a fifth part of the money to the estimation, and then he shall possess it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But if he is not willing to redeem it, then it shall be sold to any other; he who vowed it is no longer able to redeem it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For when the day of Jubilee arrives, it shall be sanctified to the Lord. And as a possession that has been consecrated, it rightfully belongs to the priest.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If a field has been bought, and it is not from the possession of ancestors, it shall be sanctified to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The priest shall evaluate the price according to the number of years until the Jubilee; and the one who had vowed it shall give to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then, in the Jubilee, it shall be returned to the former owner, the one who had sold it and who had held it within the lot of his possession.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All estimation shall be weighed according to the shekel of the Sanctuary. A shekel has twenty obols.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The firstborn, which belong to the Lord, no one is able to sanctify or vow, whether it is an ox, or a sheep, they are for the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> But if it is an unclean animal, whoever offers it shall redeem it, according to your estimation, and he shall add a fifth part to the price. If he is not willing to redeem it, it shall be sold to another for whatever amount it was estimated by you.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> All that is consecrated to the Lord, whether it is a man, or an animal, or a field, shall not be sold; neither is it able to be redeemed. Anything, once it has been consecrated, shall be the Holy of holies to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And all that has been consecrated, which is offered by man, shall not be redeemed, but shall surely die.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> All the tithes of the land, whether from the grain, or from the fruits of trees, are for the Lord and are sanctified to him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But if anyone is willing to redeem his tithes, he shall add a fifth part to them.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Out of all the tithes of oxen, and sheep, and goats, which cross under the rod of the shepherd, every tenth one that arrives shall be sanctified to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> It shall not be chosen by what is good or bad; neither shall it be exchanged for another. If anyone has exchanged it, both that which was exchanged, and that for which it was exchanged, shall be sanctified to the Lord and shall not be redeemed.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> These are the precepts, which the Lord commanded Moses for the sons of Israel on mount Sinai.</p>

</body>
</html>