<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Balaam said to Balak, "Build seven altars here for me, and prepare as many calves, and the same number of rams."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when he had acted according to the words of Balaam, they placed a calf and a ram together on each altar.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Balaam said to Balak: "Stand for a little while next to your holocaust, until I go, to see if perhaps the Lord will meet with me. And whatever he will command, I shall speak to you."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And after he had quickly departed, God met with him. And Balaam, speaking to him, said: "I have set up seven altars, and I have placed a calf and a ram on each."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then the Lord placed the word in his mouth, and he said: "Return to Balak, and you shall say this."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Returning, he found Balak standing next to his holocaust, with all the leaders of the Moabites.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And taking up his parable, he said: "Balak, king of the Moabites, has led me from Aram, from the mountains of the east. 'Come forth,' he said, 'and curse Jacob. Hurry and condemn Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How shall I curse him, whom God has not cursed? For what reason would I condemn him, whom the Lord does not condemn?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> I will look upon him from the tops of the stones, and I will consider him from the hills. This people shall dwell alone, and they shall not be counted among the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Who can number the dust that is Jacob, and who can know the number of the stock of Israel? May my soul die a just death, and may my end be like theirs."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Balak said to Balaam: "What is this that you are doing? I called for you, in order to curse my enemies, and to the contrary, you bless them."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He answered him, "How can I say anything other than what the Lord orders?"</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, Balak said: "Come with me to another place, from where you may see a portion of Israel, though you cannot see them all. Curse them from there."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when he had led him to a lofty place, on the top of mount Pisgah, Balaam built seven altars, and placing upon each a calf and a ram,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> he said to Balak, "Stand here next to your holocaust, while I continue on to meet him."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when the Lord had met him, and had put the word in his mouth, he said, "Return to Balak, and you shall say this to him."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Returning, he found him standing next to his holocaust, and the leaders of the Moabites were with him. And Balak said to him, "What has the Lord spoken?"</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But, taking up his parable, he said: "Stand, Balak, and pay attention. Listen, you son of Zippor.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> God is not like a man, so that he would lie, nor is he like a son of man, so that he would be changed. Therefore, having spoken, will he not act? Has he ever spoken, and not fulfilled?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I was led here to bless, and I have no strength to hinder the blessing.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> There is no idol in Jacob; neither is there a false image to be seen in Israel. The Lord his God is with him, and the resound of royal victory is in him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> God has led him away from Egypt; his strength is like that of the rhinoceros.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> There is no soothsaying in Jacob, nor any divination in Israel. In their times, it shall be told to Jacob and to Israel what God has wrought.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Behold, the people will rise up like a lioness, and lie down like a lion. But they will not lie down until they devour the prey and drink the blood of the slain."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Balak said to Balaam, "Neither curse him, nor bless him."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And he said, "Have I not told you that whatever God would command of me, I would do?"</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Balak said to him: "Come and I will lead you to another place. If perhaps it may please God, then you may curse them from there."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And when he had led him on to the top of mount Peor, which looks out toward the wilderness,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Balaam said to him, "Build seven altars here for me, and prepare as many calves, and the same number of rams."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Balak did as Balaam had said, and he placed on each altar a calf and a ram.</p>

</body>
</html>