<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the sons of Israel, and the entire multitude, went into the desert of Sin, in the first month. And the people stayed at Kadesh. And Miriam died there, and she was buried in the same place.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when the people were in need of water, they came together against Moses and Aaron.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And as it turned into sedition, they said: "If only we had perished among our brothers in the sight of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Why have you led away the Church of the Lord, into the wilderness, so that both we and our cattle would die?</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Why did you cause us to ascend from Egypt, and why have you led us into this most wretched place, which is not able to be sown, which does not produce figs, or vines, or pomegranates, and which, moreover, does not even have water to drink?"</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Moses and Aaron, dismissing the multitude, entered the tabernacle of the covenant, and they fell prone on the ground, and they cried out to the Lord, and they said: "O Lord God, listen to the outcry of this people, and open for them, from your storehouse, a fountain of living water, so that, being satisfied, their murmuring may cease." And the glory of the Lord appeared over them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c20_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> "Take the rod, and gather the people, you and your brother Aaron, and speak to the rock before them, and it shall bestow waters. And when you have brought forth water from the rock, the entire multitude and their cattle shall drink."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore, Moses took the rod, which was in the sight of the Lord, just as he had instructed him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And having gathered the multitude before the rock, he said to them: "Listen, you who are rebellious and unbelieving. Would we be able to cast out water from this rock?"</p>

<p><a id="c20_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when Moses had lifted up his hand, striking the stone twice with the rod, very great waters went forth, so much so that the people and their cattle were able to drink.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, "Because you did not believe me, so as to sanctify me before the sons of Israel, you shall not lead this people into the land, which I will give to them."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the Water of Contradiction, where the sons of Israel were quarreling against the Lord, and he was sanctified in them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Meanwhile, Moses sent messengers from Kadesh to the king of Edom. They said: "Your brother Israel says this: You know of all the hardships which have overtaken us,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> how our fathers descended into Egypt, and we lived there for a long time, and the Egyptians afflicted both us and our fathers,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and how we cried out to the Lord, and he heeded us and sent an Angel, who led us away from Egypt. Behold, we are situated in the city of Kadesh, which is at the extremity of your borders.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And we beg you to permit us to cross through your land. We will not go through the fields, nor through the vineyards; we will not drink the waters of your wells, but we will travel by the public ways, neither turning aside to the right, nor to the left, until we have passed your borders."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Edom responded to them: "You shall not cross through me, otherwise, I will meet you armed."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And the sons of Israel said: "We will travel by the well-trodden path. And if we or our cattle drink from your waters, we will give you what is just. There shall be no difficulty in the price, only let us cross through quickly."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But he answered, "You shall not cross." And immediately he went out to meet them with a countless multitude and a strong hand;</p>

<p><a id="c20_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> neither was he willing to agree to their petition to concede passage through his borders. For this reason, Israel diverted away from him.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And when they had moved the camp from Kadesh, they arrived at mount Hor, which is at the borders of the land of Edom,</p>

<p><a id="c20_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> where the Lord spoke to Moses:</p>

<p><a id="c20_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> "Let Aaron," he said, "go to his people. For he shall not enter into the land which I have given to the sons of Israel, because he did not believe my mouth at the Waters of Contradiction.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Take Aaron, and his son with him, and lead them on to mount Hor.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when you have stripped the father of his vestments, you shall put them on Eleazar, his son. Aaron shall be gathered and shall die there."</p>

<p><a id="c20_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Moses did just as the Lord had instructed. And they ascended mount Hor, in the sight of the entire multitude.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And when he had despoiled Aaron of his vestments, he clothed his son Eleazar with them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when Aaron had died at the top of the mountain, Moses came down with Eleazar.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And the entire multitude, seeing that Aaron lay dead, wept over him for thirty days, throughout all their families.</p>

</body>
</html>