<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Israel, at that time, dwelt in Shittim, and the people were fornicating with the daughters of Moab,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> who called them to their sacrifices. And they ate, and they adored their gods.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Israel was initiated into Baal of Peor. And so the Lord, being angry,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> said to Moses, "Take all the leaders of the people, and hang them on gallows against the sun, so that my fury may be averted from Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Moses said to the judges of Israel, "Let each one kill his neighbors, who have been initiated into Baal of Peor."</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And behold, one of the sons of Israel entered, in the sight of his brothers, to a prostitute of Midian, within view of Moses and of all the crowd of the sons of Israel, who were weeping before the door of the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And when Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, had seen it, he rose up from the midst of the multitude, and, seizing a dagger,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> he entered after the Israelite man, into the brothel, and he pierced both of them at the same time, specifically, the man and the woman at the location of their genitals. And the scourge ceased from among the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And there were slain twenty-four thousand men.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Lord said to Moses:</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> "Phinehas the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, has averted my wrath from the sons of Israel. For he was moved against them by my zeal, so that I myself, in my zeal, might not wipe away the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Because of this, say to him: Behold, I give to him the peace of my covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the covenant of the everlasting priesthood shall be as much for him as for his offspring. For he was zealous on behalf of his God, and he has made expiation for the wickedness of the sons of Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Now the name of the Israelite man, who was killed with the Midianite woman, was Zimri the son of Salu, a leader from the kinship and tribe of Simeon.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Moreover, the Midianite woman, who was put to death together with him, was called Cozbi the daughter of Zur, a most noble leader among the Midianites.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> "Let the Midianites perceive you as enemies, and strike them down,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> for they, too, have behaved with hostility against you, and they have deceived you insidiously by means of the idol Peor, and by Cozbi, the daughter of a commander of Midian, their sister, who was struck down in the day of the scourge because of the sacrilege of Peor."</p>

</body>
</html>