<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Speak to Aaron, and you shall say to him: When you place the seven lamps, let the lampstand be set up on the south side. Therefore, give this instruction: that the lamps should look out from the region opposite the north, toward the table of the bread of the presence; they shall give light opposite that area, toward the area that the lampstand faces."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And Aaron did so, and he placed the lamps on the lampstand, just as the Lord had instructed Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now this was the workmanship of the lampstand: it was of ductile gold, both the main shaft and all that originated from both sides of the branches. According to the example that the Lord revealed to Moses, so did he make the lampstand.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> "Take the Levites from the midst of the sons of Israel, and you shall purify them</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> according to this ritual: Let them be sprinkled with the water of illumination, and let them shave off all the hairs of their body. And when they have washed their garments and have been cleansed,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> they shall take an ox from the herd, with its libation of fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil; then you shall receive another ox from the herd for sin.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And you shall bring forward the Levites before the tabernacle of the covenant, calling together all the multitude of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when the Levites are before the Lord, the sons of Israel shall place their hands upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Aaron shall offer the Levites as a gift in the sight of the Lord, from the sons of Israel, so that they may serve in his ministry.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Likewise, the Levites shall place their hands upon the heads of the oxen; you shall make use of one of these for sin, and the other as a holocaust to the Lord, so that you may intercede for them.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And you shall set the Levites in the sight of Aaron and his sons, and you shall consecrate those being offered to the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and you shall separate them from the midst of the sons of Israel, so that they may be for me.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And after this, they shall enter the tabernacle of the covenant, in order to serve me. And so shall you purify and consecrate them as an oblation to the Lord. For they were given to me as a gift from the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have accepted them in place of the firstborn which open every womb in Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For all the firstborn of the sons of Israel, as much from men as from beasts, are mine. From the day when I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I have sanctified them to myself.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And I have taken the Levites in place of all the firstborn of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And I have delivered them as a gift to Aaron and his sons, from the midst of the people, in order to serve me, for Israel, in the tabernacle of the covenant, and in order to pray for them, lest there be a scourge among the people, if they were to dare to approach to my Sanctuary."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Moses and Aaron, and all the multitude of the sons of Israel, accomplished all that the Lord had commanded Moses concerning the Levites.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And they were purified, and they washed their garments. And Aaron lifted them up in the sight of the Lord, and he prayed for them,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> so that, having been purified, they might enter to their duties in the tabernacle of the covenant before Aaron and his sons. Just as the Lord had instructed Moses about the Levites, so was it done.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> "This is the law of the Levites: From twenty-five years and above, they shall enter to minister in the tabernacle of the covenant.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And when they will have completed the fiftieth year of age, they shall cease to serve.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And they shall be the ministers of their brothers in the tabernacle of the covenant, in order to care for the things that have been commended to them, but not to perform the works themselves. So shall you assign the Levites in their duties."</p>

</body>
</html>