<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "Speak to the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them: A man or a woman, when they have made a vow so that they may be sanctified, and when they are willing to consecrate themselves to the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> shall abstain from wine and from anything which is able to inebriate. They shall not drink vinegar made from wine or from any other drink, nor anything pressed from the grape. They shall not eat grapes, neither fresh nor dried.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> During all the days that they are consecrated to the Lord by vow, they shall not eat whatever may be from the vineyard, from raisins, even to grape seeds.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> During all the time of his separation, no razor shall pass over his head, even until the completion of the day when he is consecrated to the Lord. He shall be holy, letting the hair of his head grow long.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> During all the time of his consecration, he shall not enter because of a death,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> nor shall he contaminate himself, even over the funeral of his father, or his mother, or his brother, or his sister. For the consecration of his God is upon his head.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> During all the days of his separation, he shall be holy to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But if anyone will have died unexpectedly before him, the head of his consecration shall be polluted, and he shall shave it in that very place, on the same day of his purification, and again on the seventh day.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then, on the eighth day, he shall offer two turtledoves or two young pigeons, to the priest at the entrance to the covenant of the testimony.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the priest shall effect one for sin, and the other as a holocaust, and he shall pray for him, because he has sinned on account of the dead. And he shall sanctify his head on that day.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he shall consecrate to the Lord the days of his separation, offering a one-year-old lamb for sin, yet in such a manner that the former days will be made null and void, because his sanctification was polluted.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the law of consecration. When the days that he had decreed by vow have been completed, he shall bring him to the door of the tabernacle of the covenant,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and he shall offer his oblation to the Lord: an immaculate one-year-old male lamb as a holocaust, and an immaculate one-year-old female lamb for sin, and an immaculate ram, a peace-offering victim,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> also, a basket of unleavened bread, which has been sprinkled with oil, and cakes without leaven, anointed with oil, as well as the libations of each one.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the priest shall offer them before the Lord, and he shall perform both the sin offering and the holocaust.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yet truly, the ram he shall immolate as a peace-offering victim to the Lord, offering at the same time the basket of unleavened bread, and the libations which are required by custom.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then the Nazarite shall be shaved of the long hair of his consecration, before the door of the tabernacle of the covenant. And he shall take his hair, and he shall place it upon the fire, which is under the sacrifice of the peace offerings.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he shall take the cooked shoulder of the ram, and one twist of bread without leaven from the basket, and one unleavened cake, and he shall deliver them into the hands of the Nazarite, after his head has been shaven.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And receiving them again from him, he shall elevate them in the sight of the Lord. And having been sanctified, these shall be for the priest, as also the breast, which was ordered to be separated, and the leg. After this, the Nazarite is able to drink wine.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> This is the law of the Nazarite, when he has vowed his oblation to the Lord in the time of his consecration, aside from those things which his hand shall find. According to what he had vowed in his mind, so shall he do, to the perfection of his sanctification."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> "Say to Aaron and his sons: Thus shall you bless the sons of Israel, and you shall say to them:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> 'May the Lord bless you and keep you.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> May the Lord reveal his face to you and take pity on you.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> May the Lord turn his countenance toward you and grant peace to you.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they shall invoke my name over the sons of Israel, and I will bless them."</p>

</body>
</html>