<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when Balaam had seen that it was pleasing to the Lord that he should bless Israel, he by no means went out as he had gone before, to seek divination. But directing his face opposite the desert,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and lifting up his eyes, he saw Israel dwelling in tents by their tribes. And with the Spirit of God rushing into him,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> taking up his parable, he said: "Balaam, the son of Beor, the man whose eye has been obstructed,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> the hearer of the sermon of God, he who has gazed upon a vision of the Almighty, he who falls down and so his eyes are opened, has declared:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> 'How beautiful are your tabernacles, O Jacob, and your tents, O Israel!</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They are like forested valleys, like gardens irrigated next to rivers, like tabernacles which the Lord has fixed, like cedars close to waters.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Water shall flow from his jar, and his offspring shall be amid many waters, because Agag, his king, shall be taken, and his kingdom shall be removed.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Away from Egypt, God has led him, whose strength is like the rhinoceros. They shall devour the nations that are his enemies, and break their bones, and pierce them with arrows.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Lying down, he has slept like a lion, and like a lioness, whom no one would dare to awaken. He who blesses you, shall himself also be blessed. He who curses you, shall be considered cursed."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Balak, being angry against Balaam, clapped his hands together and said: "I called you to curse my enemies, and, to the contrary, you have blessed them three times.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Return to your place. I had decided, indeed, to honor you greatly, but the Lord has deprived you of the designated honor."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Balaam responded to Balak: "Did I not say to your messengers, whom you sent to me:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Even if Balak would give me his house, filled with silver and gold, I still could not go away from the word of the Lord my God, so as to offer anything, either good or evil, from my own heart; but whatever the Lord will speak, this, too, I shall speak.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, as I continue on to my own people, I will give you counsel as to what this people shall do to your people in the end times."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, taking up his parable, he again spoke: "Balaam the son of Beor, the man whose eye has been obstructed,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> the hearer of the sermon of God, he who knows the doctrine of the Most High, and who sees the visions of the Almighty, who, falling down, has his eyes opened, has declared:</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> I shall see him, but not presently. I shall gaze upon him, but not soon. A star shall rise out of Jacob, and a rod shall spring up from Israel. And he shall strike down the commanders of Moab, and he shall devastate all the sons of Seth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And he shall possess Idumea; the inheritance of Seir shall fall to their enemies. Yet truly, Israel shall act with strength.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> From Jacob will be he who shall be ruler. And he shall perish the remnants of the city."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And when he saw Amalek, taking up his parable, he said: "Amalek, first among the Gentiles, whose very end shall be perdition."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Likewise, he saw the Kainites, and taking up his parable, he said: "Robust, indeed, is your habitation. But though you will set your nest in a rock,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and you will be elect among the stock of Kain, how long will you be able to remain? For Assur shall take you captive."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And taking up his parable once more he said: "Alas! Who will be able to survive, when God will do these things?</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> They shall arrive in Greek warships from Italy. They shall overcome the Assyrians, and they shall devastate the Hebrews, and yet, at the very end, even they themselves shall perish."</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Balaam rose up, and he returned to his place. Likewise, Balak went back, along the way by which he had arrived.</p>

</body>
</html>