<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These are the lodging places of the sons of Israel, who departed from Egypt by their companies under the hand of Moses and Aaron,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> which Moses wrote down according to the places of the encampments, which they changed upon the order of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Thus the sons of Israel set out from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month, on the day after the Passover, with an exalted hand, being seen by all the Egyptians.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And these were burying their firstborn, whom the Lord had struck down (for so, too, did he carry out retribution against their gods).</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And they made camp at Soccoth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And from Soccoth they went to Etham, which is at the furthest limits of the wilderness.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Departing from there, they arrived opposite Pi-hahiroth, which looks out toward Baal-zephon, and they were encamped before Migdol.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And setting out from Pi-hahiroth, they crossed through the middle of the Sea into the wilderness. And having walked for three days through the desert of Etham, they made camp at Marah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And setting out from Marah, they arrived at Elim, where there were twelve fountains of water and seventy palm trees. And they set up camp there.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But departing from there also, they fixed their tents above the Red Sea. And setting out from the Red Sea,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> they were encamped in the desert of Sin.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Departing from there, they went to Dophkah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And setting out from Dophkah, they made camp at Alush.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And departing from Alush, they fixed their tents at Rephidim, where the people lacked water to drink.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And setting out from Rephidim, they camped in the desert of Sinai.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But departing also from the wilderness of the Sinai, they arrived at the Graves of Lust.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And setting out from the Graves of Lust, they were encamped at Hazeroth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And from Hazeroth, they went to Rithmah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And setting out from Rithmah, they made camp at Rimmon-perez.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And departing from there, they arrived at Libnah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> From Libnah, they made camp at Rissah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And departing from Rissah, they went to Kehelathah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Setting out from there, they were encamped at mount Shepher.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Departing from mount Shepher, they went to Haradah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Continuing on from there, they made camp at Makheloth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And setting out from Makheloth, they went to Tahath.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> From Tahath, they made camp at Terah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Departing from there, they pitched their tents at Mithkah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And from Mithkah, they were encamped at Hashmonah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And setting out from Hashmonah, they went to Moseroth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And from Moseroth, they made camp at Bene-jaakan.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And setting out from Bene-jaakan, they went to mount Gidgad.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Setting out from there, they were encamped at Jotbathah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And from Jotbathah, they went to Abronah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And departing from Abronah, they made camp at Eziongeber.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Setting out from there, they went into the desert of Sin, which is Kadesh.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And departing from Kadesh, they encamped at mount Hor, at the furthermost limits of the land of Edom.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And Aaron the priest ascended onto mount Hor, by the order of the Lord. And there he died, in the fortieth year of the departure of the sons of Israel from Egypt, in the fifth month, on the first day of the month,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> when he was one hundred twenty-three years old.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And king Arad the Canaanite, who lived toward the south, heard that the sons of Israel had arrived in the land of Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And setting out from mount Hor, they made camp at Zalmonah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Departing from there, they went to Punon.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And setting out from Punon, they were encamped at Oboth.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And from Oboth, they went to Iye-abarim, which is at the borders of the Moabites.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And setting out from Iye-abarim, they fixed their tents at Dibon-gad.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Departing from there, they made camp at Almon-diblathaim.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And departing from Almon-diblathaim, they went to the mountains of Abarim, opposite Nebo.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And setting out from the mountains of Abarim, they crossed over to the plains of Moab, above the Jordan, opposite Jericho.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And they made camp there, from Beth-jeshimoth all the way to Abel-shittim, in the level places of the Moabites,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> where the Lord said to Moses:</p>

<p><a id="c33_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> "Instruct the sons of Israel, and say to them: When you will have crossed over the Jordan, entering into the land of Canaan,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> destroy all the inhabitants of that land. Break their monuments, and shatter their statues, and lay waste to every exalted thing,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> cleansing the land and living in it. For I have given it you as a possession,</p>

<p><a id="c33_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> which you shall divide among you by lot. To the greater number you shall give more, and to the lesser number, less. To each one, just as the lot shall fall, so shall the inheritance be distributed. The possession shall be divided by the tribes and families.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> But if you are not willing to put to death the inhabitants of the land, those who remain shall be to you like spikes in your eyes and lances in your sides, and they shall be adversaries to you in the land of your habitation.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> And whatever I had decided to do to them, I will do to you."</p>

</body>
</html>