<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it happened in the day when Moses completed the tabernacle, and he set it up, and he anointed and sanctified it with all of its vessels, and similarly the altar and all of its vessels,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> that the leaders of Israel and the heads of the families, who were in each tribe and who were in charge of those who had been numbered, offered</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> their gifts in the sight of the Lord: six covered wagons with twelve oxen. Two leaders offered one wagon, and each offered one ox, and they offered these in the sight of the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the Lord said to Moses:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> "Receive these things from them, in order to serve in the ministry of the tabernacle, and you shall deliver them to the Levites, according to the order of their ministry."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so Moses, having received the wagons and the oxen, delivered them to the Levites.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Two wagons and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to what they needed.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The other four wagons and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their offices and service, under the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But to the sons of Kohath he gave no wagons or oxen, because they serve in the Sanctuary and they carry their burdens on their shoulders.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, the leaders offered, at the dedication of the altar on the day when it was anointed, their oblation before the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord said to Moses: "Let each of the leaders, on each of the days, offer their gifts for the dedication of the altar."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> On the first day, Nahshon, the son of Amminadab of the tribe of Judah, offered his oblation.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And in it were these: a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, according to the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> a little mortar made from ten shekels of gold, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and a one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Nahshon, the son of Amminadab.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> On the second day, Nathanael, the son of Zuar, the leader of the tribe of Issachar, offered:</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, according to the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> a little mortar of gold having ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Nathanael, the son of Zuar.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> On the third day, the leader of the sons of Zebulon, Eliab the son of Helon,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This is the oblation of Eliab the son of Helon.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> On the fourth day, the leader of the sons of Ruben, Elizur the son of Shedeur,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and a one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> and for victims of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Elizur, the son of Shedeur.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> On the fifth day, the leader of the sons of Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and a one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> and for victims of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Shelumiel, the son of Zurishaddai.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> On the sixth day, the leader of the sons of Gad, Eliasaph the son of Reuel,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and for victims of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Eliasaph, the son of Reuel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> On the seventh day, the leader of the sons of Ephraim, Elishama the son of Ammihud,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> and for victims of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Elishama, the son of Ammihud.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> On the eighth day, the leader of the sons of Manasseh, Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and a one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> and for victims of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Gamaliel, the son of Pedahzur.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> On the ninth day, the leader of the sons of Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and a one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> and for victims of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Abidan, the son of Gideoni.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> On the tenth day, the leaders of the sons of Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and a one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> and for victims of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Ahiezer, the son of Ammishaddai.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> On the eleventh day, the leader of the sons of Asher, Pagiel the son of Ochran,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and a one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> and for victims of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Pagiel, the son of Ochran.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> On the twelfth day, the leader of the sons of Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> offered a silver dish weighing one hundred thirty shekels, a silver bowl having seventy shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary, and both were filled with fine wheat flour sprinkled with oil as a sacrifice,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> a little mortar of gold weighing ten shekels, filled with incense,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v81"></a><span class="vn">81</span> an ox from the herd, and a ram, and a one-year-old lamb as a holocaust,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v82"></a><span class="vn">82</span> and a he-goat for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v83"></a><span class="vn">83</span> and for victims of peace offerings: two oxen, five rams, five he-goats, and five one-year-old lambs. This was the oblation of Ahira, the son of Enan.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v84"></a><span class="vn">84</span> These were the oblations from the leaders of Israel for the dedication of the altar on the day when it was consecrated: twelve dishes of silver, twelve bowls of silver, twelve little mortars of gold,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v85"></a><span class="vn">85</span> such that each dish had one hundred thirty shekels of silver, and each bowl had seventy shekels, that is, putting all of the vessels from silver together, two thousand four hundred shekels, by the weight of the Sanctuary,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v86"></a><span class="vn">86</span> and twelve little mortars of gold, filled with incense, weighing ten shekels by the weight of the Sanctuary, that is, all together one hundred twenty shekels of gold,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v87"></a><span class="vn">87</span> and twelve oxen from the herd as a holocaust, twelve rams, twelve one-year-old lambs, with their libations, and twelve he-goats for sin;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v88"></a><span class="vn">88</span> and for victims of peace offerings: twenty-four oxen, sixty rams, sixty he-goats, and sixty one-year-old lambs. These were the oblations for the dedication of the altar, when it was anointed.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v89"></a><span class="vn">89</span> And when Moses entered into the tabernacle of the covenant, to consult the oracle, he heard the voice of One speaking to him from the propitiatory, which is over the ark of the testimony between the two cherubims, and there he also spoke to him.</p>

</body>
</html>