<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Numbers 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Numbers 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These are the generations of Aaron and Moses, in the day when the Lord spoke to Moses on mount Sinai.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And these are the names of the sons of Aaron: his firstborn Nadab, then Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> These the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests who were anointed and whose hands were filled and consecrated in order to exercise the priesthood.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For Nadab and Abihu died without children, when they offered, in the sight of the Lord, a strange fire, in the desert of Sinai. And so, Eleazar and Ithamar exercised the priesthood in the sight of Aaron, their father.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> "Bring forward the tribe of Levi, and cause them to stand in the sight of Aaron the priest, in order to minister to him. And let them keep watch outside,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and let them observe whatever pertains to the ritual for the multitude, in front of the tabernacle of the testimony,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and let them take care of the vessels of the tabernacle, serving in its ministry.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And you shall give the Levites as a gift to Aaron and his sons; for they have been delivered to them by the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But you shall appoint Aaron and his sons over the service of priesthood. The outsider who approaches to minister shall be put to death."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> "I have taken the Levites from the sons of Israel. For the Levites, and all the firstborn who open the womb among the sons of Israel, shall be mine.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For every firstborn is mine. From the time that I struck the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I have sanctified for myself whatever is born first in Israel. From man, even to beast, they are mine. I am the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses in the desert of Sinai, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> "Number the sons of Levi by the houses of their fathers and their families, every male from one month and above."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moses numbered them, just as the Lord had instructed,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> and there were found the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon and Kohath and Merari.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> From Gershon were two families: the Libnites, and the Shimeites.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The people of these were numbered, of the male sex, from one month and above: seven thousand five hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> These shall encamp behind the tabernacle, toward the west,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> under the leader Eliasaph the son of Lael.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they shall keep watch over the tabernacle of the covenant:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> the tabernacle itself, and its covering; the tent that is drawn before the doors of the covering of the covenant; and the curtains of the atrium; likewise, the tent that is suspended at the entrance of the atrium of the tabernacle; and whatever pertains to the ritual of the altar; the cords of the tabernacle and all its implements.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The kinship of Kohath includes the peoples of the Amramites and Izharites and Hebronites and Uzzielites. These are the families of the Kohathites, having been counted by their names,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> all those of the male gender, from one month and above: eight thousand six hundred. They shall keep watch over the Sanctuary,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and they shall encamp toward the south side.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And their leader shall be Elisaphan the son of Uzziel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they shall take care of the ark, and the table and the lampstand, the altars and the vessels of the Sanctuary, by which they minister, and the veil, and all the articles of this kind.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But the leader of the leaders of the Levites, Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, shall be over those who watch over the care of the Sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And truly, from Merari are the peoples of the Mahlites and Mushites, having been counted by their names,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> all those of the male gender, from one month and above: six thousand two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Their leader is Suriel the son of Abihaiel. They shall make camp on the north side.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Under their care shall be the panels of the tabernacle, and the bars, and the columns with their bases, and all the things which pertain to service of this kind,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and the columns of the surrounding atrium with their bases, and the tent pegs with their cords.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Moses and Aaron, with their sons, shall make camp before the tabernacle of the covenant, that is, on the east side, holding the custody of the Sanctuary in the midst of the sons of Israel. Whatever foreigner approaches it shall die.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> All the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron numbered by their families according to the precept of the Lord, of the male gender, from one month and above, were twenty-two thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the Lord said to Moses: "Number the firstborn of the male sex from the sons of Israel, from one month and above, and you shall take their total.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And you shall bring the Levites to me, in place of all the firstborn of the sons of Israel, and you shall bring their cattle to me, in place of all the firstborn of the cattle of the sons of Israel. I am the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Moses took a census, just as the Lord had instructed, of the firstborn of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And the males by their names, from one month and above, were twenty-two thousand two hundred seventy-three.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> "Take the Levites, in place of the firstborn of the sons of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites, in place of their cattle, and so the Levites shall be mine. I am the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> But for the price of the two hundred and seventy-three, which exceed the number of the Levites compared to the number of firstborn of the sons of Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> you shall take five shekels for each head, by the measure of the Sanctuary. A shekel has twenty obols.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And you shall give the money to Aaron and his sons as the price of those that are in excess."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Therefore, Moses took the money for those that were in excess, and whom they had redeemed from the Levites</p>

<p><a id="c3_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> in place of the firstborn of the sons of Israel: one thousand three hundred sixty-five shekels, according to the weight of the Sanctuary.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And he gave it to Aaron and his sons, according to the word by which the Lord had instructed him.</p>

</body>
</html>