<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Moses summoned all of Israel, and he said to them: "Listen, O Israel, to the ceremonies and judgments, which I am speaking to your ears on this day. Learn them, and fulfill them in deed.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The Lord our God formed a covenant with us at Horeb.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He did not make the covenant with our fathers, but with us, who are alive and in the present time.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He spoke to us face to face on the mountain, from the midst of fire.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I was the mediator, for I was in the middle between the Lord and you, at that time, to announce his words to you. For you were afraid of the fire, and so you did not ascend to the mountain. And he said:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> 'I am the Lord your God, who led you away from the land of Egypt, from the house of servitude.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You shall not have strange gods in my sight.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> You shall not make for yourself a graven image, nor the likeness of anything, which is in heaven above, or on earth below, or which abides in the waters under the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You shall not adore and you shall not worship these things. For I am the Lord your God, a jealous God, repaying the iniquity of the fathers upon the sons to the third and fourth generation to those who hate me,</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and acting with mercy in thousands of ways to those who love me and keep my precepts.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> You shall not use the name of the Lord your God in vain. For he will not go unpunished who takes up his name over an unimportant matter.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Observe the day of the Sabbath, so that you may sanctify it, just as the Lord your God has instructed you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For six days, you shall labor and do all your work.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The seventh is the day of the Sabbath, that is, the rest of the Lord your God. You shall not do any work in it, nor shall your son, nor daughter, nor man servant, nor woman servant, nor ox, nor donkey, nor any of your cattle, nor the sojourner who is within your gates, so that your men and woman servants may rest, just as you do.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Remember that you also were servants in Egypt, and the Lord your God led you away from that place with a strong hand and an outstretched arm. Because of this, he has instructed you so that you would observe the Sabbath day.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Honor your father and mother, just as the Lord your God has instructed you, so that you may live a long time, and so that it may be well with you in the land, which the Lord your God will give to you.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You shall not murder.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And you shall not commit adultery.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And you shall not commit theft.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Neither shall you speak false testimony against your neighbor.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his house, nor his field, nor his man servant, nor his woman servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything out of all that is his.'</p>

<p><a id="c5_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The Lord spoke these words to the entire multitude of you on the mountain, from the midst of the fire and the cloud and the darkness, with a loud voice, adding nothing more. And he wrote them on two tablets of stone, which he delivered to me.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Then, after you heard the voice from the midst of the darkness, and you saw the mountain burning, you approached me, all you leaders of the tribes and those greater by birth. And you said:</p>

<p><a id="c5_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> 'Behold, the Lord our God has revealed to us his majesty and his greatness. We have heard his voice from the midst of fire, and we have proven today that, though God is speaking with man, man has lived.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore, why should we die, and why should this very great fire devour us? For if we hear the voice of the Lord our God any longer, we will die.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> What is all flesh, that it would hear the voice of the living God, who speaks from the midst of fire, just as we have heard it, and be able to live?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Instead, you should approach and listen to all the things that the Lord our God will say to you. And you will speak to us, and we will listen and do these things.'</p>

<p><a id="c5_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But when the Lord had heard this, he said to me: 'I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they spoke to you. All this, they have spoken well.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Who will grant to them to have such a mind, so that they may fear me, and may keep all my commandments at all times, so that it may be well with them and with their sons forever?</p>

<p><a id="c5_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Go and say to them: Return to your tents.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> But as for you, stand here with me, and I will speak to you all my commandments and ceremonies, as well as judgments. These, you shall teach them, so that they may do them in the land, which I will give to them as a possession.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And so, keep and do the things which the Lord God has commanded you. You shall not turn aside, neither to the right, nor to the left.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> For you shall walk in the way that the Lord your God has instructed, so that you may live, and it may be well with you, and your days may be extended in the land of your possession.' "</p>

</body>
</html>