<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Deuteronomy 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Deuteronomy 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "If there is a case between persons, and they apply to the judges, they shall give the palm of justice to the one whom they perceive to be just, and they shall condemn of impiety the one who is impious.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But if they see that the one who has sinned is worthy of stripes, they shall prostrate him and cause him to be beaten before them. According to the measure of the sin, so shall the measure of the stripes be.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Even so, these shall not exceed the number of forty. Otherwise, your brother may depart, having been wounded shamefully before your eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You shall not muzzle an ox as it is treading out your crops in the field.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> When brothers are living together, and one of them dies without children, the wife of the deceased shall not marry another. Instead, his brother shall take her, and he shall raise up offspring for his brother.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the first son from her, he shall call by his brother's name, so that his name will not be abolished from Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But if he is not willing to take his brother's wife, who by law must go to him, the woman shall go to the gate of the city, and she shall call upon those greater by birth, and she shall say: 'The brother of my husband is not willing to raise up his brother's name in Israel; nor will he join with me.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And immediately, they shall summon him to be sent, and they shall question him. If he responds, 'I am not willing to accept her as a wife,'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> then the woman shall approach him in the sight of the elders, and she shall remove his shoe from his foot, and she shall spit in his face, and she shall say: 'So shall it be done to the man who was not willing to build up his brother's house.'</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And his name shall be called in Israel: The House of the Unshod.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If two men have a conflict between themselves, and one begins to do violence to the other, and if the other's wife, wanting to rescue her husband from the hand of the stronger one, extends her hand and grasps him by his private parts,</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> then you shall cut off her hand. Neither shall you weep over her with any mercy.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> You shall not have differing weights, greater and lesser, in your bag.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Neither shall there be in your house a greater and a lesser measure.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You shall have a just and a true weight, and your measure shall be equal and true, so that you may live for a long time upon the land, which the Lord your God will give to you.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For the Lord your God abominates him who does these things, and he loathes all injustice.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Remember what Amalek did to you, along the way, when you were departing from Egypt:</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> how he met you and cut down the stragglers of the troops, who were sitting down, exhausted, when you were consumed by hunger and hardship, and how he did not fear God.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Therefore, when the Lord your God will give you rest, and you will have subdued all the surrounding nations, in the land which he has promised to you, you shall delete his name from under heaven. Take care not to forget this."</p>

</body>
</html>