<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now this lot fell to the tribe of Manasseh, since he is the firstborn of Joseph: to Machir, the firstborn of Manasseh, the father of Gilead, who was a fighting man, and he had as a possession Gilead and Bashan;</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and to the rest of the sons of Manasseh, according to their families: to the sons of Abiezer, and to the sons of Helek, and to the sons of Asriel, and to the sons of Shechem, and to the sons of Hepher, and to the sons of Shemida. These are the sons of Manasseh, the son of Joseph, the males, by their families.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yet truly, Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons, but only daughters, whose names are these: Mahlah and Noah and Hoglah and Milcah and Tirzah.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they went before the sight of Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, the son of Nun, and the leaders, saying: "The Lord instructed by the hand of Moses that a possession ought to be given to us, in the midst of our brothers." And so, he gave to them, in accord with the order of the Lord, a possession in the midst of the brothers of their father.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And by lot, there fell ten portions to Manasseh, aside from the land of Gilead and Bashan beyond the Jordan.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so the daughters of Manasseh possessed an inheritance in the midst of his sons. But the land of Gilead fell by lot to the sons of Manasseh that were left.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the border of Manasseh was from Asher to Michmethath, which looks out toward Shechem. And it goes out, to the right, beside the inhabitants of the Fountain of Tappuah.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For by lot, there also fell to Manasseh the land of Tappuah, which is beside the borders of Manasseh, and which belongs to the sons of Ephraim.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the border descends to the Valley of Reeds, to the south of the torrent of the cities of Ephraim, which are in the midst of the cities of Manasseh. The border of Manasseh is to the north of the torrent, and its exit extends to the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> So it is that the possession of Ephraim is in the south, and that of Manasseh is in the north, and both are enclosed by the sea, and they are joined together by the tribe of Asher to the north, and by the tribe of Issachar to the east.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the inheritance of Manasseh, in Issachar and in Asher, was Bethshean and its villages, and Ibleam with its villages, and the inhabitants of Dor, with their towns, likewise the inhabitants of Endor with their villages, and similarly the inhabitants of Taanach with their villages, and the inhabitants of Megiddo with their villages, and one third part of the city of Naphath.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The sons of Manasseh were not able to overthrow these cities, and so the Canaanite began to dwell in their land.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But after the sons of Israel had grown strong, they subdued the Canaanites, and made them their tributaries, but they did not kill them.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the sons of Joseph spoke to Joshua, and they said, "Why have you given to me as a possession one lot and one portion, while I am of such a great multitude, and the Lord has blessed me?"</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Joshua said to them, "If you are a numerous people, go up into the forest, and cut out space for yourself in the land of the Perizzites and the Rephaim, since the possession of mount Ephraim is too narrow for you."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the sons of Joseph responded to him: "We are not able to ascend to the mountains, since the Canaanites, who live in the plains, in which are situated Bethshean, with its villages, and Jezreel, possessing the middle of the valley, use chariots of iron."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Joshua said to the house of Joseph, to Ephraim and Manasseh: "You are a numerous people, and you have great strength. You shall not have only one lot.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Instead, you shall cross to the mountain, and you shall cut down and clear out for yourselves space in which to live. And you shall be able to advance further, when you will have destroyed the Canaanite, who, as you say, has iron chariots and is very strong."</p>

</body>
</html>