<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Joshua 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Joshua 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the second lot went out, for the sons of Simeon by their families. And their inheritance was,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> in the midst of the possession of the sons of Judah: Beersheba, and Sheba, and Moladah,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> and Hazar-shual, Balah, and Ezem,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and Eltolad, Bethul, and Hormah,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and Ziklag, and Beth-marcaboth, and Hazar-susah,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> and Bethlebaoth, and Sharuhen: thirteen cities, and their villages;</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Ain and Enrimmon, and Ether and Ashan: four cities, and their villages;</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> all villages around these cities, as far as Baalath-beer, the high place facing the southern region. This is the inheritance of the sons of Simeon, according to their families,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> within the possession and lot of the sons of Judah, which was greater. And for this reason, the sons of Simeon had a possession in the midst of their inheritance.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the third lot fell to the sons of Zebulun, by their families; and the limit of their possession was set as far as Sarid.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And it ascends from the sea and from Mareal. And it passes on to Dabbesheth, as far as the torrent, which is opposite Jokneam.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it turns back from Sarid, to the east, to the end of Chisloth-tabor. And it goes out to Daberath, and it ascends opposite Japhia.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And from there, it continues to the eastern region of Gathhepher and Ethkazin. And goes out to Rimmon, Amthar, and Neah.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And it circles to the north at Hannathon. And its exits are at the Valley of Iphtahel;</p>

<p><a id="c19_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Kattath and Nahalal, and Shimron and Idalah, and Bethlehem: twelve cities, and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> This is the inheritance of the tribe of the sons of Zebulun, by their families, the cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The fourth lot went out to Issachar, by their families.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And his inheritance was: Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and Hapharaim, and Shion, and Anaharath,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Rabbith and Kishion, Ebez</p>

<p><a id="c19_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Remeth, and Engannim, and Enhaddah, and Bethpazzez.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And its limit reaches to Tabor and Shahazumah and Beth-shemesh; and its exits shall be at the Jordan: sixteen cities, and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> This is the possession of the sons of Issachar by their families, the cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the fifth lot fell to the tribe of the sons of Asher, by their families.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And their border was: Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and Allammelech, and Amad, and Mishal. And it extends even to Carmel by the sea, and Shihor, and Libnath.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And it turns back toward the east at Bethdagon. And it continues on as far as Zebulun and the Valley of Iphtahel, toward the north, at Beth-emek and Neiel. And it goes out to the left of Cabul,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and to Ebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah, as far as the great Sidon.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And it turns back at Ramah, even to the very fortified city of Tyre, and even to Hosah. And its exits shall be at the sea, from the lot of Achzib;</p>

<p><a id="c19_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and Ummah, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty-two cities, and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> This is the possession of the sons of Asher, by their families, and the cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The sixth lot fell to the sons of Naphtali, by their families.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And its border begins from Heleph and Elon, into Zaanannim, and Adami, which is Nekeb, and Jabneel, as far as Lakkum. And its exits are as far as the Jordan.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the border turns back to the west at Aznoth-tabor, and it goes out from there to Hukkok. And continues on to Zebulun, in the south, and to Asher, in the west, and to Judah, at the Jordan, toward the rising of the sun.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the most fortified cities are Ziddim, Zer and Hammath, and Rakkath, and Chinnereth,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> and Adamah and Ramah, Hazor</p>

<p><a id="c19_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and Kedesh and Edrei, Enhazor</p>

<p><a id="c19_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and Yiron and Migdalel, Horem and Bethanath, and Beth-shemesh: nineteen cities, and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> This is the possession of the tribe of the sons of Naphtali, by their families, the cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The seventh lot went out to the tribe of the sons of Dan, by their families.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> And the border of their possession was Zorah, and Eshtaol, and Ir-shemesh, that is, the City of the Sun,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Sha-alabbin, and Aijalon, and Ithlah,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Elon, and Timnah, and Ekron,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Eltekeh, Gibbethon and Baalath,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> and Jehud, and Bene and Berak, and Gath-Rimmon,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> and Mejarkon and Rakkon, with a border that looks toward Joppa,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> and there the last part is concluded. And the sons of Dan ascended and fought against Leshem, and they seized it. And they struck it with the mouth of the sword, and they possessed it, and they lived in it, calling it by the name of Leshem-Dan, according to the name of their father Dan.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> This is the possession of the tribe of the sons of Dan, by their families, the cities and their villages.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> And when he had completed dividing the land by lot to each one by their tribes, the sons of Israel gave a possession to Joshua, the son of Nun, in their midst,</p>

<p><a id="c19_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> in accord with the precept of the Lord, the city he requested, Timnath-Serah, on mount Ephraim. And he built up the city, and he lived in it.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> These are the possessions which Eleazar, the priest, and Joshua, the son of Nun, and the leaders of the families and tribes of the sons of Israel divided by lot at Shiloh, before the Lord, at the door of the Tabernacle of the Testimony. And so did they divide the land.</p>

</body>
</html>