<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And an Angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to the Place of Weeping, and he said: "I led you away from Egypt, and I led you into the land, about which I swore to your fathers. And I promised that I would not nullify my covenant with you, even forever:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> but only if you would not form a pact with the inhabitants of this land. Instead, you should overturn their altars. Yet you were not willing to listen to my voice. Why have you done this?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For this reason, I am not willing to destroy them before your face, so that you may have enemies, and so that their gods may be your ruin."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when the Angel of the Lord spoke these words to all the sons of Israel, they lifted up their voice, and they wept.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the name of that place was called, the Place of Weeping, or the Place of Tears. And they immolated victims to the Lord in that place.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then Joshua dismissed the people, and the sons of Israel went away, each one to his own possession, so that they might obtain it.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they served the Lord, during all his days, and during all the days of the elders, who lived for a long time after him, and who knew all the works of the Lord, which he had done for Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, being one hundred and ten years old.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they buried him in the parts of his possession at Timnath-Serah, on Mount Ephraim, before the northern side of Mount Gaash.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And that entire generation was gathered to their fathers. And there rose up others, who had not known the Lord and the works that he had done for Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the sons of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord, and they served the Baals.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they abandoned the Lord, the God of their fathers, who had led them away from the land of Egypt. And they followed foreign gods and the gods of the peoples who were living around them, and they adored them. And they provoked the Lord to wrath,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> forsaking him, and serving Baal and Ashtaroth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the Lord, having become angry against Israel, delivered them into the hands of plunderers, who seized them and sold them to the enemies that were living on all sides. Neither were they able to withstand their adversaries.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Instead, wherever they wanted to go, the hand of the Lord was upon them, just as he said and just as he swore to them. And they were greatly afflicted.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the Lord raised up judges, who would free them from the hands of their oppressors. But they were not willing to listen to them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Fornicating with foreign gods and adoring them, they quickly deserted the way along which their fathers had advanced. And having heard the commandments of the Lord, they did all things to the contrary.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And while the Lord was raising up the judges, in their days, he was moved to mercy, and he listened to the groaning of the afflicted, and he freed them from the slaughter of their oppressors.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But after a judge had died, they turned back, and they were doing much worse things than their fathers had done, following strange gods, serving them, and adoring them. They did not abandon their pursuits and their very stubborn way, by which they were accustomed to walk.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the fury of the Lord was enraged against Israel, and he said: "For this people has made void my covenant, which I had formed with their fathers, and they have despised listening to my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And so, I will not destroy the nations that Joshua left behind when he died,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> so that, by them, I may test Israel, as to whether or not they will keep the way of the Lord, and walk in it, just as their fathers kept it."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore, the Lord left all these nations, and he was not willing to quickly overthrow them, nor did he deliver them into the hands of Joshua.</p>

</body>
</html>