<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But after the death of Ehud, the sons of Israel resumed doing evil in the sight of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the Lord delivered them into the hands of Jabin, the king of Canaan, who reigned at Hazor. And he had a commander of his army named Sisera, but this man lived at Harosheth of the Gentiles.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the sons of Israel cried out to the Lord. For he had nine hundred chariots with scythes, and he vehemently oppressed them for twenty years.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now there was a prophetess, Deborah, the wife of Lappidoth, who judged the people in that time.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And she was sitting under a palm tree, which was called by her name, between Ramah and Bethel, on Mount Ephraim. And the sons of Israel went up to her for every judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And she sent and called Barak, the son of Abinoam, from Kedesh of Naphtali. And she said to him: "The Lord, the God of Israel, instructs you: 'Go and lead an army to Mount Tabor, and you shall take with you ten thousand fighting men from the sons of Naphtali and from the sons of Zebulun.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then I will lead to you, at the place of the torrent Kishon, Sisera, the leader of the army of Jabin, with his chariots and the entire multitude. And I will deliver them into your hand.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Barak said to her: "If you will come with me, I will go. If you are not willing to come with me, I will not go."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> She said to him: "Indeed, I will go with you. But due to this change, the victory shall not be reputed to you. And so Sisera will be delivered into the hand of a woman." Therefore, Deborah rose up, and she traveled with Barak to Kedesh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And he, summoning Zebulun and Naphtali, ascended with ten thousand fighting men, having Deborah in his company.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now Heber, the Kenite, had previously withdrawn from the rest of the Kenites, his brothers, the sons of Hobab, the relative of Moses. And he had pitched his tents as far as the valley that is called Zaanannim, which was near Kedesh.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And it was reported to Sisera that Barak, the son of Abinoam, had ascended to Mount Tabor.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he gathered together the nine hundred chariots with scythes, and the entire army, from Harosheth of the Gentiles to the torrent Kishon.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Deborah said to Barak: "Rise up. For this is the day on which the Lord delivers Sisera into your hands. For he is your commander." And so, Barak descended from Mount Tabor, and the ten thousand fighting men with him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the Lord struck Sisera with great fear, and all his chariots and all his multitude with the edge of the sword, in the sight of Barak, so much so that Sisera, leaping from his chariot, fled on foot.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Barak pursued the fleeing chariots, and the army, as far as Harosheth of the Gentiles. And the entire multitude of the enemy was cut down, unto utter annihilation.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But Sisera, while fleeing, arrived at the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber, the Kenite. For there was peace between Jabin, the king of Hazor, and the house of Heber, the Kenite.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore, Jael went out to meet Sisera, and she said to him: "Enter to me, my lord. Enter, you should not be afraid." And he entered her tent, and having been covered by her with a cloak,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> he said to her: "Give me, I beg you, a little water. For I am very thirsty." And she opened a bottle of milk, and she gave him to drink. And she covered him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Sisera said to her: "Stand before the door of the tent. And if anyone arrives, questioning you and saying, 'Could there be any man here?' you shall respond, 'There is no one.' "</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And so Jael, the wife of Heber, took a spike from the tent, and also took a mallet. And entering unseen and with silence, she placed the spike over the temple of his head. And striking it with the mallet, she drove it through his brain, as far as the ground. And so, joining deep sleep to death, he fell unconscious and died.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And behold, Barak arrived, in pursuit of Sisera. And Jael, going out to meet him, said to him, "Come, and I will show you the man whom you are seeking." And when he had entered her tent, he saw Sisera lying dead, with the spike fixed in his temples.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Thus did God humble Jabin, the king of Canaan, on that day, before the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they increased every day. And with a strong hand they overpowered Jabin, the king of Canaan, until they wiped him out.</p>

</body>
</html>