<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Judges 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Judges 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At that time, there was a Gileadite, Jephthah, a very strong man and a fighter, the son of a kept woman, and he was born of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now Gilead had a wife, from whom he received sons. And they, after growing up, cast out Jephthah, saying, "You cannot inherit in the house of our father, because you were born of another mother."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And so, fleeing and avoiding them, he lived in the land of Tob. And men who were indigent and robbers joined with him, and they followed him as their leader.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> In those days, the sons of Ammon fought against Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And being steadfastly attacked, the elders of Gilead traveled so that they might obtain for their assistance Jephthah, from the land of Tob.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they said to him, "Come and be our leader, and fight against the sons of Ammon."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But he answered them: "Are you not the ones who hated me, and who cast me out of my father's house? And yet now you come to me, compelled by necessity?"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the leaders of Gilead said to Jephthah, "But it is due to this necessity that we have approached you now, so that you may set out with us, and fight against the sons of Ammon, and be commander over all who live in Gilead."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Jephthah also said to them: "If you have come to me so that I may fight for you against the sons of Ammon, and if the Lord will deliver them into my hands, will I truly be your leader?"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They answered him, "The Lord who hears these things is himself the Mediator and the Witness that we shall do what we have promised."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And so Jephthah went with the leaders of Gilead, and all the people made him their leader. And Jephthah spoke all his words, in the sight of the Lord, at Mizpah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he sent messengers to the king of the sons of Ammon, who said on his behalf, "What is there between you and me, that you would approach against me, so that you might lay waste to my land?"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he responded to them, "It is because Israel took my land, when he ascended from Egypt, from the parts of Arnon, as far as the Jabbok and the Jordan. Now therefore, restore these to me with peace."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Jephthah again commissioned them, and he ordered them to say to the king of Ammon:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> "Jephthah says this: Israel did not take the land of Moab, nor the land of the sons of Ammon.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But when they ascended together from Egypt, he walked through the desert as far as the Red Sea, and he went into Kadesh.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he sent messengers to the king of Edom, saying, 'Permit me to pass through your land.' But he was not willing to agree to his petition. Likewise, he sent to the king of Moab, who also refused to offer him passage. And so he delayed in Kadesh,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and he circled around the side of the land of Edom and the land of Moab. And he arrived opposite the eastern region of the land of Moab. And he made camp across the Arnon. But he was not willing to enter the borders of Moab. (Of course, Arnon is the border of the land of Moab.)</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And so Israel sent messengers to Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who was living at Heshbon. And they said to him, "Permit me to cross through your land as far as the river."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> But he, too, despising the words of Israel, would not permit him to cross through his borders. Instead, gathering an innumerable multitude, he went out against him at Jahaz, and he resisted strongly.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But the Lord delivered him, with his entire army, into the hands of Israel. And he struck him down, and he possessed all the land of the Amorite, the inhabitant of that region,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> with all its parts, from the Arnon as far as the Jabbok, and from the wilderness even to the Jordan.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore, it was the Lord, the God of Israel, who overthrew the Amorites, by means of his people Israel fighting against them. And now you wish to possess his land?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Are not the things that your god Chemosh possesses owed to you by right? And so, what the Lord our God has obtained by victory falls to us as a possession.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Or are you, perhaps, better than Balak, the son of Zippor, the king of Moab? Or are you able to explain what his argument was against Israel, and why he fought against him?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And though he has lived in Heshbon, and its villages, and in Aroer, and its villages, and in all the cities near the Jordan for three hundred years, why have you, for such long a time, put forward nothing about this claim?</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Therefore, I am not sinning against you, but you are doing evil against me, by declaring an unjust war against me. May the Lord be the Judge and the Arbiter this day, between Israel and the sons of Ammon."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> But the king of the sons of Ammon was not willing to agree to the words of Jephthah that he commissioned by the messengers.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Therefore, the Spirit of the Lord rested upon Jephthah, and circling around Gilead, and Manasseh, and also Mizpah of Gilead, and crossing from there to the sons of Ammon,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> he made a vow to the Lord, saying, "If you will deliver the sons of Ammon into my hands,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> whoever will be the first to depart from the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the sons of Ammon, the same will I offer as a holocaust to the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Jephthah crossed to the sons of Ammon, so that he might fight against them. And the Lord delivered them into his hands.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And he struck them down from Aroer, as far as the entrance to Minnith, twenty cities, and as far as Abel, which is covered with vineyards, in an exceedingly great slaughter. And the sons of Ammon were humbled by the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But when Jephthah returned to Mizpah, to his own house, his only daughter met him with timbrels and dances. For he had no other children.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And upon seeing her, he tore his garments, and he said: "Alas, my daughter! You have cheated me, and you yourself have been cheated. For I opened my mouth to the Lord, and I can do nothing else."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And she answered him, "My father, if you have opened your mouth to the Lord, do to me whatever you have promised, since victory has been granted to you, as well as vengeance against your enemies."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And she said to her father: "Grant to me this one thing, which I request. Permit me, that I may wander the hillsides for two months, and that I may mourn my virginity with my companions."</p>

<p><a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> And he answered her, "Go." And he released her for two months. And when she had departed with her friends and companions, she wept over her virginity in the hillsides.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And when the two months expired, she returned to her father, and he did to her just as he had vowed, though she knew no man. From this, the custom grew up in Israel, and the practice has been preserved,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> such that, after each year passes, the daughters of Israel convene as one, and they lament the daughter of Jephthah, the Gileadite, for four days.</p>

</body>
</html>