<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ruth 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ruth 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Boaz went up to the gate, and he sat there. And when he had seen the kinsman passing by, whom he had previously discussed, he spoke to him, calling him by his name, "Pause for a little while, and sit down here." He turned aside and sat down.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But Boaz, calling aside ten men among the elders of the city, said to them, "Sit down here."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They settled down, and he spoke to the kinsman, "Naomi, who has returned from the region of the Moabites, is selling part of a field of our brother Elimelech.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I wanted you to hear this, and to tell you in front of everyone sitting here, including the eldest of my people. If you will take possession of it by the right of kinship, buy it and possess it. But if it displeases you, you should reveal this to me, so that I will know what I have to do. For there is no near kinsman besides you, who is before me, and I am after you." But he answered, "I will buy the field."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Boaz said to him, "When buying the field, you are likewise obliged to accept the hand of the woman Ruth, the Moabite, who was the wife of the deceased, so that you may raise up the name of your near kinsman through his posterity."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He answered, "I yield my right of kinship, for I am obliged not to cut off the posterity of my own family. You may make use of my privilege, which I freely declare I will forego."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Yet it was the custom between kinsmen in this former time in Israel, that if at anytime one yielded his right to another, so as to confirm his permission, the man took off his shoe and gave it to his neighbor. This was a testimony of concession in Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And so Boaz said to his kinsman, "Take off your shoe." And immediately he released it from his foot.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said to the eldest and to all the people, "You are witnesses this day, that I have taken possession of all that belonged to Elimelech and Chilion and Mahlon, and was bequeathed to Naomi.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Ruth, the Moabite, the wife of Mahlon, I have taken in marriage so as to raise up the name of the deceased in his posterity, so that his name will not be cut off from among his family and his brethren and his people. You, I say, are witnesses of this thing."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All the people who were at the gate, along with the eldest, answered, "We are witnesses. May the Lord make this woman, who enters into your house, like Rachel, and Leah, who built up the house of Israel, so that she may be an example of virtue in Ephrathah, and so that her name may be honored in Bethlehem.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And may your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, of the offspring which the Lord will give to you from this young woman."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And so Boaz took Ruth, and received her as his wife, and he went in to her, and the Lord granted to her to conceive and bear a son.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the women said to Naomi, "Blessed be the Lord, who has not permitted your family to be without a successor, and may his name be called upon in Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And now you may have someone to comfort your soul and to care for you in old age, for he is born of your daughter-in-law, who loves you, and this is much better for you, than if you had seven sons."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And taking up the boy, Naomi placed him on her bosom, and she took on the duties of carrying him and nursing him.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the women of the near future were congratulating her and saying, "There was a son born to Naomi. They called his name Obed. Here is the father of Jesse, the father of David."</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> These are the generations of Perez: Perez conceived Hezron,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Hezron conceived Aram, Aram conceived Amminadab,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Amminadab conceived Nahshon, Nahshon conceived Salmon,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Salmon conceived Boaz, Boaz conceived Obed,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Obed conceived Jesse, Jesse conceived David.</p>

</body>
</html>