<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> There was a certain man from Ramah of Zophim, on Mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephraimite.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he had two wives: the name of one was Hannah, and the name of the second was Peninnah. And Peninnah had sons. But Hannah did not have children.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And this man went up from his city, on the established days, so that he might adore and sacrifice to the Lord of hosts at Shiloh. Now the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, priests of the Lord, were in that place.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the day arrived, and Elkanah immolated. And he gave portions to his wife Peninnah, and to all her sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But to Hannah he gave one portion with sorrow. For he loved Hannah, but the Lord had closed her womb.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And her rival afflicted her and vehemently distressed her, to a great extent, for she rebuked her that the Lord had closed her womb.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And she did so every year, when the time returned for them to ascend to the temple of the Lord. And she provoked her in this way. And so, she wept and did not take food.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore, her husband Elkanah said to her: "Hannah, why are you weeping? And why do you not eat? And for what reason do you afflict your heart? Am I not better to you than ten sons?"</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And so, after she ate and drank at Shiloh, Hannah rose up. And Eli, the priest, was sitting on the seat before the door of the temple of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And since Hannah was bitter in soul, she prayed to the Lord, weeping greatly.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And she made a vow, saying, "O Lord of hosts, if, in looking with favor, you will see the affliction of your servant and will remember me, and will not forget your handmaid, and if you will give to your servant a male child, then I will give him to the Lord all the days of his life, and no razor shall pass over his head."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then it happened that, while she multiplied prayers before the Lord, Eli observed her mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For Hannah was speaking in her heart, and only her lips moved, and her voice was barely heard. Therefore, Eli considered her to be drunk,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and so he said to her: "How long will you be inebriated? You should take only a little wine, but instead you are drenched."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Responding, Hannah said: "By no means, my lord. For I am an exceedingly unhappy woman, and I drank neither wine, nor anything that can inebriate. Instead, I have poured out my soul in the sight of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> You should not repute your handmaid as one of the daughters of Belial. For I have been speaking from the abundance of my sorrow and grief, even until now."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then Eli said to her: "Go in peace. And may the God of Israel grant to you your petition, which you have begged of him."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And she said, "I wish that your handmaid may find grace in your eyes." And the woman went on her way, and she ate, and her countenance was no longer changed for the worse.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they rose up in the morning, and they worshipped before the Lord. And they returned and arrived at their own house at Ramah. Then Elkanah knew his wife Hannah. And the Lord remembered her.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And it happened that, in the course of days, Hannah conceived and bore a son. And she called his name Samuel, because she had requested him from the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now her husband Elkanah ascended with his entire house, so that he might immolate to the Lord a solemn sacrifice, with his vow.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> But Hannah did not go up. For she said to her husband, "I will not go, until the infant has been weaned, and until I may lead him, so that he may appear before the sight of the Lord, and may remain always there."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And her husband Elkanah said to her: "Do what seems good to you, and stay until you wean him. And I pray that the Lord may fulfill his word." Therefore, the woman remained at home, and she breastfed her son, until she withdrew him from milk.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And after she had weaned him, she brought him with her, along with three calves, and three measures of flour, and a small bottle of wine, and she led him to the house of the Lord at Shiloh. But the boy was still a young child.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they immolated a calf, and they presented the boy to Eli.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Hannah said: "I beg you, my lord, as your soul lives, my lord: I am that woman, who stood before you here, praying to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> I prayed for this child, and the Lord granted to me my petition, which I asked of him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Because of this, I have also lent him to the Lord, for all the days when he shall be lent to the Lord." And they adored the Lord in that place. And Hannah prayed, and she said:</p>

</body>
</html>