<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Samuel said to all of Israel: "Behold, I have listened to your voice, according to all that you have said to me, and I have appointed a king over you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And now the king advances before you. But I am old and have gray hair. Moreover, my sons are with you. And so, having conversed before you from my youth, even until this day, behold, I am here.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Speak about me before the Lord, and before his Christ, as to whether I have taken anyone's ox or donkey, or whether I have falsely accused anyone, or whether I have oppressed anyone, or whether I have accepted a bribe from the hand of anyone, and I will repudiate the same, this day, and I will restore it to you."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they said, "You have not falsely accused us, nor oppressed us, nor have you taken anything from the hand of anyone."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he said to them, "The Lord is a witness against you, and his Christ is a witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand." And they said, "He is the witness."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Samuel said to the people: "It is the Lord who appointed Moses and Aaron, and who led our fathers away from the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now therefore, stand, so that I may contend in judgment against you before the Lord, about all the mercies of the Lord, which he has given to you and to your fathers:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> How Jacob entered into Egypt, and your fathers cried out to the Lord. And the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, and he led your fathers away from Egypt, and he transferred them to this place.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But they forgot the Lord their God, and so he delivered them into the hand of Sisera, master of the army of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab. And they fought against them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But afterward, they cried out to the Lord, and they said: 'We have sinned, because we have forsaken the Lord, and we have served the Baals and Ashtaroth. Now therefore, rescue us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve you.'</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Lord sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and he rescued you from the hand of your enemies all around, and you lived in confidence.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then, seeing that Nahash, the king of the sons of Ammon, had arrived against you, you said to me, 'By no means! Instead, a king shall reign over us,' even though the Lord your God was reigning over you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now therefore, your king is present, whom you chose and requested. Behold, the Lord has given you a king.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If you will fear the Lord, and serve him, and listen to his voice, and not provoke the mouth of the Lord, then both you, and the king who rules over you, will be following the Lord your God.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But if you will not listen to the voice of the Lord, but instead you provoke his words, then the hand of the Lord will be over you and over your fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, stand now, and see this great thing, which the Lord will accomplish in your sight.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Is it not the harvest of the wheat today? I will call upon the Lord, and he will send thunder and rain. And you will know and see that you have done a great evil in the sight of the Lord, by petitioning for a king over you."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And Samuel cried out to the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain on that day.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And all the people feared the Lord and Samuel exceedingly. And all the people said to Samuel: "Pray, on behalf of your servants, to the Lord your God, so that we may not die. For we have added to all our sins this evil, that we would petition for a king."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Samuel said to the people: "Do not be afraid. You have done all this evil. Yet truly, do not choose to withdraw from the back of the Lord. Instead, serve the Lord with all your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And do not choose to turn aside after vanities, which will never benefit you, nor rescue you, since they are empty.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Lord will not abandon his people, because of his great name. For the Lord has sworn to make you his people.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> So then, far be it from me, this sin against the Lord, that I would cease to pray for you. And so, I will teach you the good and upright way.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, fear the Lord, and serve him in truth and from your whole heart. For you have seen the great works that he has done among you.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But if you persevere in wickedness, both you and your king will perish together."</p>

</body>
</html>