<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> "My heart exults in the Lord, and my horn is exalted in my God. My mouth is enlarged over my enemies. For I have rejoiced in your salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Nothing is holy as the Lord is holy. For there is no other beside you. And nothing is strong as our God is strong.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Do not continue speaking of great things, boasting. Let what is old depart from your mouth. For the Lord is the God of knowledge, and thoughts are prepared for him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The bow of the powerful has been overwhelmed, and the weak have been girded with strength.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Those who before were filled, have hired themselves out for bread. And the starving have been filled, so that the barren have given birth to many. But she who had borne many sons has become unable.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The Lord brings death, and he gives life. He leads away to death, and he brings back again.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The Lord impoverishes, and he enriches. He humbles, and he lifts up.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He raises up the indigent from the dust, and he lifts up the poor from filth, so that they may sit with princes, and take hold of a throne of glory. For the hinges of the earth belong to the Lord, and he has placed the globe upon them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He will preserve the feet of his holy ones, and the impious will be silenced in darkness. For no man will prevail by his own strength.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The adversaries of the Lord will dread him. And over them, he will thunder in the heavens. The Lord will judge the parts of the earth, and he will give dominion to his king, and he will lift up the horn of his Christ."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Elkanah went away to Ramah, to his house. But the boy was a minister in the sight of the Lord, before the face of Eli, the priest.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But the sons of Eli were sons of Belial, not knowing the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> nor the priestly office for the people. And so, no matter who had immolated a victim, the servant of the priest would arrive, while the flesh was still cooking, and he would take a three-pronged hook in his hand,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and put it into the vessel, or into the cauldron, or into the cooking pot, or into the pan, and all that the hook lifted up, the priest took for himself. So they did to all of Israel who arrived at Shiloh.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> In addition, before they burned the fat, the servant of the priest would arrive, and he would say to the one who was immolating: "Give me the flesh, so that I may boil it for the priest. For I will not accept cooked meat from you, but raw."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the one who was immolating would say to him, "First, allow the fat to be burned today, according to custom, and then take for yourself whatever your soul desires." But in response, he would say to him: "By no means. For you will give it to me now, otherwise I will take it by force."</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Therefore, the sin of the servants was exceedingly great before the Lord. For they drew men away from the sacrifice of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But Samuel was ministering before the face of the Lord; he was a youth girded with a linen ephod.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And his mother fashioned a little tunic for him, which she brought to him on the appointed days, ascending with her husband, so that he might immolate the solemn sacrifice.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife. And he said to him, "May the Lord repay to you offspring from this woman, on behalf of the loan that you offered to the Lord." And they went away to their own place.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then the Lord visited Hannah, and she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters. And the youth Samuel was magnified with the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now Eli was very old, and he heard all that his sons were doing to all of Israel, and how they were sleeping with the women who were waiting at the door of the tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he said to them: "Why are you doing these kinds of things, very wicked things, that I have heard from all the people?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> My sons, do not be willing. For it is no good report that I am hearing, so that you would cause the people of the Lord to transgress.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> If a man has sinned against a man, God may be able to be appeased over him. But if a man has sinned against the Lord, who will pray for him?" But they did not listen to the voice of their father, that the Lord was willing to kill them.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But the youth Samuel advanced, and grew up, and he was pleasing to the Lord, as well as to men.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then a man of God went to Eli, and he said to him: "Thus says the Lord: Was I not revealed openly to the house of your father, when they were in Egypt in the house of Pharaoh?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And I chose him out of all the tribes of Israel for myself as priest, so that he might ascend to my altar, and burn incense to me, and wear the ephod before me. And I gave to the house of your father all the sacrifices of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Why have you kicked away my victims and my gifts, which I instructed to be offered in the temple? And why have you given more honor to your sons than to me, so that you eat the first-fruits of every sacrifice of my people Israel?</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Because of this, the Lord God of Israel says: I have spoken clearly, so that your house, and the house of your father, may minister in my sight, even forever. But now the Lord says: May this be far from me. Instead, whoever will have glorified me, I will glorify him. But whoever despises me, they will be despised.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Behold the days are arriving, when I will cut off your arm, and the arm of the house of your father, so that there will not be an old man in your house.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And you will see your rival in the temple, amid all the prosperity of Israel. And there will not be an old man in your house for all days.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Yet truly, I will not entirely take away a man of you from my altar, but such that your eyes may fail, and your soul may melt away, and a great part of your house may die out, as it pertains to the state of men.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> But this will be a sign to you, which will happen to your two sons, Hophni and Phinehas: on one day they both will die.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And I will raise up for myself a faithful priest, who will act in accord with my heart and my soul. And I will build a faithful house for him. And he will walk before my Christ for all days.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then this will be in the future, that whoever will have remained of your house, he will approach so that he may pray on his behalf. And he will offer a coin of silver, and a twist of bread. And he will say: 'Permit me, I beg you, one part of the priestly office, so that I may eat a mouthful of bread.' "</p>

</body>
</html>