<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Becorath, the son of Aphiah, the son of a man of Benjamin, strong and robust.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he had a son called Saul, an elect and good man. And there was not a man among the sons of Israel better than he was. For he stood head and shoulders above all the people.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now the donkeys of Kish, the father of Saul, had become lost. And Kish said to his son Saul, "Take with you one of the servants, and rising up, go out and seek the donkeys." And when they had passed through mount Ephraim,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> and through the land of Shalishah, and had not found them, they crossed also through the land of Shaalim, and they were not there, and through the land of Benjamin, and they found nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when they had arrived in the land of Zuph, Saul said to the servant who was with him, "Come, and let us return, otherwise perhaps my father may forget the donkeys, and become anxious over us."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said to him: "Behold, there is a man of God in this city, a noble man. All that he says, happens without fail. Now therefore, let us go there. For perhaps he may tell us about our way, because of which we have arrived."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Saul said to his servant: "Behold, let us go. But what will we bring to the man of God? The bread in our sacks has run out. And we have no small gift that we might give to the man of God, nor anything at all."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The servant again responded to Saul, and he said: "Behold, there is found in my hand a coin of the fourth part of a stater. Let us give it to the man of God, so that he may reveal to us our way."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (In past times, in Israel, anyone going to consult God would speak in this way, "Come, and let us go to the seer." For one who is called a prophet today, in past times was called a seer.)</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Saul said to his servant: "Your word is very good. Come, let us go." And they went into the city, where the man of God was.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And as they were ascending the slope to the city, they found some young women going out to draw water. And they said to them, "Is the seer here?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And responding, they said to them: "He is. Behold, he is ahead of you. Hurry now. For he came into the city today, since there is a sacrifice for the people today, on the high place.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Upon entering the city, you should find him immediately, before he ascends to the high place for the meal. And the people will not eat until he has arrived. For he blesses the victim, and thereafter those who were called will eat. Now therefore, go up. For you will find him today."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And they ascended into the city. And as they were walking in the midst of the city, Samuel appeared, advancing to meet them, so that he might ascend to the high place.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now the Lord had revealed to the ear of Samuel, one day before Saul had arrived, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> "Tomorrow, at the same hour that it is now, I will send to you a man from the land of Benjamin. And you shall anoint him to be the leader over my people Israel. And he will save my people from the hand of the Philistines. For I have looked with favor upon my people, because their outcry has reached me."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And when Samuel had caught sight of Saul, the Lord said to him: "Behold, the man about whom I spoke to you. This one shall rule over my people."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Saul drew near to Samuel, at the middle of the gate, and he said, "Tell me, I beg you: where is the house of the seer?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Samuel responded to Saul, saying: "I am the seer. Ascend before me to the high place, so that you may eat with me today. And I will send you away in the morning. And I shall reveal to you everything that is in your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And concerning the donkeys, which were lost the day before yesterday, you should not be anxious, for they have been found. And all the best things of Israel, for whom should they be? Will they not be for you and for all your father's house?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And responding, Saul said: "Am I not a son of Benjamin, the least tribe of Israel, and are not my kindred the last among all the families from the tribe of Benjamin? So then, why would you speak this word to me?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And so Samuel, taking Saul and his servant, brought them into the dining room, and he gave them a place at the head of those who had been invited. For there were about thirty men.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Samuel said to the cook, "Present the portion that I gave to you, and which I instructed you to set apart beside you."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then the cook lifted up the shoulder, and he placed it before Saul. And Samuel said: "Behold, what remains, set it before you and eat. For it was preserved for you intentionally, when I called the people." And Saul ate with Samuel on that day.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they descended from the high place into the town, and he spoke with Saul in the upper room. And he set out a bed for Saul in the upper room, and he slept.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when they had risen in the morning, and it now began to be light, Samuel called to Saul in the upper room, saying, "Rise up, so that I may send you on." And Saul rose up. And they both departed, that is to say, he and Samuel.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And as they were descending to the very limit of the city, Samuel said to Saul: "Tell the servant to go ahead of us, and to continue on. But as for you, stay here a little while, so that I may reveal the word of the Lord to you."</p>

</body>
</html>