<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Samuel said to Saul: "The Lord sent me, so that I would anoint you as king over his people Israel. Now therefore, listen to the voice of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> 'Thus says the Lord of hosts: I have taken account of all that Amalek has done to Israel, how he stood against him in the way, when he ascended from Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now therefore, go and strike Amalek, and demolish all that is his. You shall not spare him, and you shall not covet anything out of the things that are his. Instead, kill from man even to woman, and little ones as well as infants, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.' "</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And so, Saul instructed the people, and he numbered them like lambs: two hundred thousand foot soldiers, and ten thousand men of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when Saul had arrived as far as the city of Amalek, he placed ambushes at the torrent.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Saul said to the Kenite: "Go away, withdraw, and descend from Amalek. Otherwise, I will include you with him. For you showed mercy to all the sons of Israel, when they ascended from Egypt." And so the Kenite withdrew from the midst of Amalek.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Saul struck down Amalek, from Havilah even until you arrive at Shur, which is opposite the region of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he apprehended Agag, the king of Amalek, alive. But all the common people he put to death with the edge of the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the flocks of sheep, and of the herds, and the garments, and the rams, and all that was beautiful, and they were not willing to destroy them. Yet truly, whatever was vile or worthless, these they demolished.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, saying</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> "It displeases me that I have appointed Saul as king. For he has forsaken me, and he has not fulfilled the work of my words." And Samuel was greatly saddened, and he cried out to the Lord, all night long</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And when Samuel had risen while it was still dark, so that he might go to Saul in the morning, it was reported to Samuel that Saul had arrived at Carmel, and that he had erected for himself a triumphant arch. And, while returning, he had continued on and descended to Gilgal. Therefore, Samuel went to Saul. And Saul was offering a holocaust to the Lord, from the best of the spoils, which he had brought from Amalek.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And when Samuel had gone to Saul, Saul said to him: "You are the blessed of the Lord. I have fulfilled the word of the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Samuel said, "Then what is this voice of the flocks, which resounds in my ears, and of the herds, which I am hearing?"</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Saul said: "They have brought these from Amalek. For the people spared the best of the sheep and of the herds, so that they might be immolated to the Lord your God. Yet truly, the remainder we have slain."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then Samuel said to Saul, "Permit me, and I will reveal to you what the Lord has said to me this night." And he said to him, "Speak."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Samuel said: "Was it not when you were little in your own eyes that you were made the head of the tribes of Israel? And the Lord anointed you as king over Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And the Lord sent you on the way, and he said: 'Go and put to death the sinners of Amalek. And you shall fight against them, even unto utter annihilation.'</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Why then, did you not listen to the voice of the Lord? Instead, you turned to the spoils, and you did evil in the eyes of the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Saul said to Samuel: "On the contrary, I did listen to the voice of the Lord, and I walked in the way along which the Lord sent me, and I led back Agag, the king of Amalek, and I put to death Amalek.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But the people took some of the spoils, sheep and oxen, as the first-fruits of those things that were slain, to immolate to the Lord their God at Gilgal."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And Samuel said: "Does the Lord want holocausts and victims, and not instead that the voice of the Lord should be obeyed? For obedience is better than sacrifice. And to heed is greater than to offer the fat of rams.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Therefore, it is like the sin of paganism to rebel. And it is like the crime of idolatry to refuse to obey. For this reason, therefore, because you have rejected the word of the Lord, the Lord has also rejected you from being king."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And Saul said to Samuel: "I have sinned, for I have transgressed the word of the Lord, and your words, by fearing the people and obeying their voice.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But now, I beg you, to bear my sin, and to return with me, so that I may adore the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Samuel said to Saul: "I will not return with you. For you have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord has rejected you from being king over Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And Samuel turned away, so that he might depart. But Saul took hold of the edge of his cloak, and it tore.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Samuel said to him: "The Lord has torn the kingdom of Israel away from you this day. And he has delivered it to your neighbor, who is better than you are.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Moreover, the One who triumphs within Israel will not spare, and he will not be moved to repentance. For he is not a man, that he should repent."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then he said: "I have sinned. But now, honor me before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and return with me, so that I may adore the Lord your God."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Therefore, Samuel turned again after Saul. And Saul adored the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Samuel said, "Bring near to me Agag, the king of Amalek." And Agag, very fat and trembling, was presented to him. And Agag said, "Does bitter death separate in this manner?"</p>

<p><a id="c15_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Samuel said, "Just as your sword caused women to be without their children, so will your mother be without her children among women." And Samuel cut him into pieces, before the Lord at Gilgal.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then Samuel went away to Ramah. But Saul ascended to his house at Gibeah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And Samuel did not see Saul any more, until the day of his death. Yet truly, Samuel mourned for Saul, because the Lord regretted that he had appointed him as king over Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>