<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And David said in his heart: "At some time, I will one day fall into the hands of Saul. Is it not better if I flee, and be saved in the land of the Philistines, so that Saul may despair and cease to seek me in all the parts of Israel? Therefore, I will flee away from his hands."</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And David rose up and went away, he and the six hundred men who were with him, to Achish, the son of Maoch, the king of Gath.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men: each man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam, the Jezreelite, and Abigail, the wife of Nabal of Carmel.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And it was reported to Saul that David had fled to Gath. And so, he did not continue to seek him.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And David said to Achish: "If I have found favor in your eyes, let a place be given to me in one of the cities of this region, so that I may live there. For why should your servant stay in the city of the king with you?"</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And so, Achish gave Ziklag to him on that day. And for this reason, Ziklag belongs to the kings of Judah, even to this day.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now the number of days that David lived in the region of the Philistines was four months.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And David and his men went up and took plunder from Geshuri, and from Girzi, and from the Amalekites. For in the land long ago, these were the inhabitants of the area, going from Shur as far as the land of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David struck the entire land. Neither did he leave alive man or woman. And he took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the donkeys, and the camels, and the garments. And he returned and went to Achish.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Achish said to him, "Whom did you go out against today?" And David responded, "Against the south of Judah, and against the south of Jerahmeel, and against the south of Keni."</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Neither man nor woman was left alive by David. Neither did he lead back any of them to Gath, saying, "Lest perhaps they may speak against us." David did these things. And this was his decision during all the days that he lived in the region of the Philistines.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, Achish trusted David, saying: "He has worked much harm against his people Israel. And so, he will be a servant to me forever."</p>

</body>
</html>