<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then the men of Kiriath-jearim arrived, and they led away the ark of the Lord. And they brought it into the house of Abinadab, in Gibeah. Then they sanctified Eleazar, his son, so that he might care for the ark of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And it happened that, from that day, the ark of the Lord remained in Kiriath-jearim. And the days were multiplied (for it was now the twentieth year) and all the house of Israel rested, following the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then Samuel spoke to the entire house of Israel, saying: "If you would return to the Lord with your whole heart, take away strange gods from among you, the Baals and Ashtaroth, and prepare your hearts for the Lord, and serve him alone. And he will rescue you from the hand of the Philistines."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, the sons of Israel took away the Baals and Ashtaroth, and they served the Lord alone.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And Samuel said, "Gather all of Israel at Mizpah, so that I may pray for you to the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And they convened at Mizpah. And they drew water, and they poured it out in the sight of the Lord. And on that day they fasted, and in that place they said, "We have sinned against the Lord." And Samuel judged the sons of Israel at Mizpah.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the Philistines heard that the sons of Israel had gathered together at Mizpah. And the princes of the Philistines ascended against Israel. And when the sons of Israel had heard this, they were afraid before the face of the Philistines.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they said to Samuel, "May you not cease to cry out to the Lord our God on our behalf, so that he may save us from the hand of the Philistines."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Samuel took one suckling lamb, and he offered it whole, as a holocaust to the Lord. And Samuel cried out to the Lord on behalf of Israel, and the Lord heeded him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then it happened that, while Samuel was offering the holocaust, the Philistines began the battle against Israel. But the Lord thundered with a great crash, on that day, over the Philistines, and he terrified them, and they were cut down before the face of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the men of Israel, departing from Mizpah, pursued the Philistines, and they struck them down as far as the place which was below Bethcar.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then Samuel took a single stone, and he placed it between Mizpah and Shen. And he called the name of this place: The Stone of Assistance. And he said, "For in this place the Lord gave assistance to us."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the Philistines were humbled, and they no longer drew near, so that they might enter into the borders of Israel. And so, the hand of the Lord was over the Philistines during all the days of Samuel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron as far as Gath, with their borders. And he freed Israel from the hand of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And he went each year, traveling around to Bethel, and to Gilgal, and to Mizpah, and he judged Israel in the above-stated places.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And he returned to Ramah. For his house was there, and he judged Israel there. And then he built an altar to the Lord there.</p>

</body>
</html>