<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Samuel 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Samuel 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And they reported to David, saying, "Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah, and they are plundering the grain stores."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, David consulted the Lord, saying, "Shall I go and strike down these Philistines?" And the Lord said to David, "Go, and you shall strike down the Philistines, and you shall save Keilah."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the men who were with David said to him, "Behold, we continue in fear here in Judea; how much more so, if we go into Keilah against the troops of the Philistines?"</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, David consulted the Lord again. And responding, he said to him: "Rise up, and go into Keilah. For I will deliver the Philistines into your hand."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore, David and his men went into Keilah. And they fought against the Philistines, and they took away their cattle, and they struck them with a great slaughter. And David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And in that time, when Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, was in exile with David, he had descended to Keilah, having an ephod with him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then it was reported to Saul that David had gone to Keilah. And Saul said: "The Lord has delivered him into my hands. For he is enclosed, having entered into a city which has gates and bars."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Saul instructed all the people to descend in order to fight against Keilah, and to besiege David and his men.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And when David had realized that Saul had secretly prepared evil against him, he said to Abiathar, the priest, "Bring the ephod."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And David said: "O Lord God of Israel, your servant has heard a report that Saul is planning to go to Keilah, so that he may overturn the city because of me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Will the men of Keilah deliver me into his hands? And will Saul descend, just as your servant has heard? O Lord God of Israel, reveal to your servant." And the Lord said, "He will descend."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And David said, "Will the men of Keilah deliver me, and the men who are with me, into the hands of Saul?" And the Lord said, "They will deliver you."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, David, and his men of about six hundred, rose up, and, departing from Keilah, they wandered here and there, aimlessly. And it was reported to Saul that David had fled from Keilah, and was saved. For this reason, he chose not to go out.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then David stayed in the desert, in very strong places. And he stayed on a mount in the wilderness of Ziph, on a shady mount. Nevertheless, Saul was seeking him every day. But the Lord did not deliver him into his hands.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And David saw that Saul had gone out, so that he might seek his life. Now David was in the desert of Ziph, in the woods.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Jonathan, the son of Saul, rose up and went to David in the woods, and he strengthened his hands in God. And he said to him:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> "Do not be afraid. For the hand of my father, Saul, will not find you. And you shall reign over Israel. And I will be second to you. And even my father knows this."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore, they both struck a pact before the Lord. And David stayed in the woods. But Jonathan returned to his house.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then the Ziphites ascended to Saul at Gibeah, saying: "Behold, is not David hidden with us in very secure places in the woods on the hill of Hachilah, which is to the right of the desert?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now therefore, if your soul has desired to descend, then descend. Then it will be for us to deliver him into the hands of the king."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And Saul said: "You have been blessed by the Lord. For you have grieved for my situation.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Therefore, I beg you, go forth, and prepare diligently, and act carefully. And consider the place where his foot may be, and who may have seen him there. For he thinks, concerning me, that I craftily plan treachery against him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Consider and seek out all his hiding places, in which he may be concealed. And return to me with certainty about the matter, so that I may go with you. But if he would even press himself into the earth, I will search him out, amid all the thousands of Judah."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And rising up, they went to Ziph before Saul. But David and his men were in the desert of Maon, in the plain to the right of Jeshimon.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Then Saul and his allies went to seek him. And this was reported to David. And immediately, he descended to the rock, and he moved about in the desert of Maon. And when Saul had heard of it, he pursued David in the desert of Maon.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And Saul went to one side of the mountain. But David and his men were on the other side of the mountain. Then David was despairing that he would be able to escape from the face of Saul. And Saul and his men enclosed David and his men in the manner of a crown, so that they might capture them.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And a messenger came to Saul, saying, "Hurry and come, because the Philistines have poured themselves out upon the land."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Therefore, Saul turned back, ceasing in the pursuit of David, and he traveled to meet the Philistines. For this reason, they called that place, the Rock of Division.</p>

</body>
</html>