<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And David said, "Do you think that there could be anyone left from the house of Saul, so that I might show mercy to him because of Jonathan?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now there was, from the house of Saul, a servant named Ziba. And when the king had called him to himself, he said to him, "Are you not Ziba?" And he responded, "I am your servant."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the king said, "Could there be anyone alive from the house of Saul, so that I may show the mercy of God to him?" And Ziba said to the king, "There is left alive a son of Jonathan, with disabled feet."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> "Where is he?" he said. And Ziba said to the king, "Behold, he is in the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, in Lodebar."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore, king David sent and brought him from the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, from Lodebar.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, had come to David, he fell upon his face, and he reverenced. And David said, "Mephibosheth?" And he responded, "Your servant is here."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And David said to him: "Do not be afraid. For I will certainly show mercy to you because of your father Jonathan. And I will restore to you all the fields of your father Saul. And you shall eat bread at my table always."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And reverencing him, he said, "Who am I, your servant, that you should look with favor upon a dead dog like me?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And so, the king called Ziba, the servant of Saul, and he said to him: "Everything whatsoever that belonged to Saul, and his entire house, I have given to the son of your lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And so, work the land for him, you and your sons and your servants. And you shall bring in food for the son of your lord, for nourishment. And Mephibosheth, the son of your lord, shall always eat bread at my table." Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Ziba said to the king: "Just as my lord has ordered your servant, so will your servant do. And Mephibosheth shall eat at my table, like one of the sons of the king."</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was Mica. Truly, all the kindred of the house of Ziba served Mephibosheth.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> But Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem. For he was fed always from the table of the king. And he was lame in both feet.</p>

</body>
</html>