<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Samuel 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Samuel 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> These are the last words of David. Now David, the son of Jesse, the man to whom it was appointed concerning the Christ of the God of Jacob, the preeminent psalmist of Israel said:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> "The Spirit of the Lord has spoken through me, and his word was spoken through my tongue.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The God of Israel spoke to me, the Strong One of Israel spoke, the Ruler of men, the Just Ruler, in the fear of God,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> like the first light of the morning as the sun is rising, when a morning without clouds glows red, and like plants springing forth from the earth after a rainfall.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But my house is not so great with God that he should undertake an eternal covenant with me, firm and fortified in all things. For he is the entirety of my salvation and the entirety of my will. And there is nothing of this which will not spring forth.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But all prevaricators shall be plucked out like thorns, yet they are not taken away by hands.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And if anyone wishes to touch them, he must be armed with iron and a wooden lance. And they shall be set ablaze and burned to nothing."</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> These are the names of the valiant of David. Sitting in the chair was the wisest leader among the three; he was like a very tender little worm in a tree, who killed eight hundred men in one attack.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> After him, there was Eleazar, the son of his paternal uncle, an Ahohite, who was among the three valiant men who were with David when they chastised the Philistines, and they were gathered together in battle there.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And when the men of Israel had gone up, he himself stood fast and struck down the Philistines, until his hand grew weak and stiff with the sword. And the Lord wrought a great salvation on that day. And the people who had fled returned to take up the spoils of the slain.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And after him, there was Shammah, the son of Agee, from Hara. And the Philistines gathered together at an outpost. For a field full of lentils was in that place. And when the people had fled from the face of the Philistines,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> he stood fast in the middle of the field, and it was protected by him. And he struck down the Philistines. And the Lord wrought a great salvation.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And moreover, before this, the three who were leaders among the thirty descended and went to David at harvest time, in the cave of Adullam. But the camp of the Philistines was positioned in the Valley of the giants.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And David was in a stronghold. Moreover, there was a garrison of the Philistines at that time in Bethlehem.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then David desired, and he said, "If only someone would give me a drink of the water from the cistern, which is in Bethlehem beside the gate!"</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, the three valiant men burst into the encampment of the Philistines, and they drew water from the cistern of Bethlehem, which was beside the gate. And they brought it to David. Yet he was not willing to drink; instead, he poured it out to the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> saying: "May the Lord be gracious to me, so that I may not do this. Should I drink the blood of these men who have set out to the peril of their own lives?" Therefore, he was not willing to drink. These things were accomplished by these three robust men.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Also Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was first among the three. It was he who lifted up his spear against three hundred men, whom he killed. And he was renowned among the three,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> and he was the noblest of the three, and he was their leader. But at first he did not attain to the three.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, a very strong man of great deeds, was from Kabzeel. He slew the two lions of Moab, and he descended and slew a lion in the middle of a den, in the days of snow.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He also killed an Egyptian who had a spear in his hand, a man worthy to behold. And yet he had gone down to him with only a staff. And he forced the spear from the hand of the Egyptian, and he killed him with his own spear.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, accomplished these things.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he was renowned among the three robust men, who were the most noble among the thirty. Yet truly, he did not attain to the three, until David made him his secret advisor.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Among the thirty were: Asahel, the brother of Joab, Elhanan, the son of his paternal uncle, from Bethlehem,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Shammah from Harod, Elika from Harod,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Helez from Palti, Ira, the son of Ikkesh, from Tekoa,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Abiezer from Anathoth, Mebunnai from Hushah,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Heleb, the son of Baanah, also himself a Netophathite, Ittai, the son of Ribai, from Gibeah, of the sons of Benjamin,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai from the Torrent Gaash,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth from Beromi,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Eliahba from Shaalbon; the sons of Jashen, Jonathan,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Shammah from Orori, Ahiam, the son of Sharar, the Hararite,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Eliphelet, the son of Ahasbai, the son of Maacath, Eliam, the son of Ahithophel, the Gilonite,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Hezrai from Carmel, Paarai from Arbi,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Igal, the son of Nathan, from Zobah, Bani from Gad,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Zelek from Ammon, Naharai the Beerothite, the armor bearer of Joab, the son of Zeruiah,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Ira the Ithrite, Gareb also an Ithrite,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Uriah the Hittite: altogether thirty seven</p>

</body>
</html>