<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Kings 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Kings 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now king David had become elderly, and he had many days in his lifetime. And though he was covered with clothes, he was not warmed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Therefore, his servants said to him: "Let us seek, for our lord the king, a young virgin. And let her stand before the king, and warm him, and sleep in his bosom, and provide warmth for our lord the king."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And so they sought a beautiful young woman in all the parts of Israel. And they found Abishag, a Shunammite, and they led her to the king.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now the girl was exceedingly beautiful. And she slept with the king, and she ministered to him. Yet truly, the king did not know her.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then Adonijah, the son of Haggith, exalted himself, saying, "I shall reign!" And he appointed for himself chariots and horsemen, with fifty men who would run before him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Neither did his father chastise him at any time, saying, "Why have you done this?" Now he, too, was very beautiful, the second in birth, after Absalom.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he conferred with Joab, the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar, the priest, who gave assistance to the side of Adonijah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Yet truly, Zadok, the priest, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan, the prophet, and Shimei and Rei, and the mature men of the army of David were not with Adonijah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then Adonijah, having immolated rams and calves and every kind of fat cattle beside the Stone of the Serpent, which was in the vicinity of the fountain Rogel, summoned all his brothers, the sons of the king, and all the men of Judah, the servants of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But he did not summon Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, and all the mature men, and Solomon, his brother.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And so Nathan said to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon: "Have you not heard that Adonijah, the son of Haggith, has begun to reign, and that our lord David is ignorant of this?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Now then, come, accept my counsel, and save your life and the life of your son Solomon.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Go and enter to king David, and say to him: 'Did you not, my lord the king, swear to me, your handmaid, saying: "Your son Solomon shall reign after me, and he himself shall sit on my throne?" Then why does Adonijah reign?'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And while you are still speaking with the king there, I will enter after you, and I will complete your words."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And so Bathsheba entered to the king in the bedroom. Now the king was very old, and Abishag, the Shunammite, was ministering to him.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Bathsheba bowed herself, and she reverenced the king. And the king said to her, "What do you wish?"</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And responding, she said: "My lord, you swore to your handmaid, by the Lord your God: 'your son Solomon will reign after me, and he himself shall sit upon my throne.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And now behold, Adonijah reigns, while you, my lord the king, are ignorant of it.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He has slain oxen, and every kind of fattened cattle, and many rams. And he has summoned all the sons of the king, as well as Abiathar, the priest, and Joab, the leader of the military. But Solomon, your servant, he did not summon.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Truly now, my lord the king, the eyes of all of Israel look with favor upon you, that you may indicate to them who ought to sit upon your throne, my lord the king, after you.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Otherwise, this will be: when my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, I and my son Solomon will be as sinners."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And while she was still speaking with the king, Nathan, the prophet, arrived.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they announced to the king, saying, "Nathan, the prophet, is here." And when he had entered in the sight of the king, and he had reverenced prone on the ground,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Nathan said: "My lord the king, did you say, 'Let Adonijah reign after me, and let him sit upon my throne?'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For today, he descended, and he immolated oxen, and fattened cattle, and many rams. And he summoned all the sons of the king, and the leaders of the army, along with Abiathar, the priest. And they are eating and drinking before him, and saying, 'As king Adonijah lives.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> But he did not summon me, your servant, and Zadok, the priest, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and Solomon, your lowly servant.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Could this word have gone out from my lord the king, and could you not have revealed it to me, your servant, as to who would be seated upon the throne of my lord the king after him?"</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And king David responded, saying, "Summon to me Bathsheba." And when she had entered before the king, and she had stood before him,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> the king swore and said: "As the Lord lives, who has rescued my soul from all distress,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> just as I swore to you by the Lord God of Israel, saying: 'Your son Solomon shall reign after me, and he himself shall sit upon my throne in my place,' so shall I do this day."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Bathsheba, having lowered her face to the ground, reverenced the king, saying, "May my lord David live forever."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And king David said, "Summon to me Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada." And when they had entered before the king,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> he said to them: "Take with you the servants of your lord, and place my son Solomon upon my mule. And lead him to Gihon.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And let Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, anoint him in that place as the king over Israel. And you shall sound the trumpet, and you shall say, 'As king Solomon lives.'</p>

<p><a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And you shall ascend after him, and he shall arrive and shall sit upon my throne. And he himself shall reign in my place. And I will command that he be the ruler over Israel and over Judah."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, responded to the king, saying: "Amen. So says the Lord, the God of my lord the king.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> In the same way that the Lord has been with my lord the king, so may he be with Solomon. And may he make his throne more sublime than the throne of my lord, king David."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, descended, with Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and Pelethites. And they placed Solomon on the mule of king David, and they led him to Gihon.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And Zadok, the priest, took the horn of oil from the tabernacle, and he anointed Solomon. And they sounded the trumpet. And all the people said, "As king Solomon lives."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the entire multitude ascended after him. And the people were playing on pipes, and rejoicing with great joy. And the earth resounded before the noise of them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Then Adonijah, and all who had been summoned by him, heard it. And now the feast had ended. Then, too, Joab, hearing the voice of the trumpet, said, "What is the meaning of this clamor from the tumultuous city?"</p>

<p><a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> While he was still speaking, Jonathan, the son of Abiathar the priest, arrived. And Adonijah said to him, "Enter, for you are a valiant man, and you report good news."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> And Jonathan answered Adonijah: "By no means. For our lord king David has appointed Solomon as king.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> And he has sent with him Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, and Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and Pelethites. And they have placed him on the mule of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And Zadok, the priest, and Nathan, the prophet, have anointed him king, at Gihon. And they are ascending from there, rejoicing, and so the city resounds. This is the noise that you have heard.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> But also, Solomon sits upon the throne of the kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And the servants of the king, entering, have blessed our lord king David, saying: 'May God amplify the name of Solomon above your name, and may he magnify his throne above your throne.' And the king reverenced from his bed.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And he said: 'Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, who today has bestowed someone to sit upon my throne, while my eyes may see it.' "</p>

<p><a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Therefore, all those who had been summoned by Adonijah were terrified. And they all rose up, and each one went his own way.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Then Adonijah, fearing Solomon, rose up and went away. And he took hold of the horn of the altar.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And they reported to Solomon, saying: "Behold, Adonijah, fearing king Solomon, has taken hold of the horn of the altar, saying: 'May king Solomon swear to me this day that he will not put to death his servant with the sword.' "</p>

<p><a id="c1_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> And Solomon said: "If he is a good man, not so much as one hair of his head shall fall to the ground. But if evil is found in him, he shall die."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Therefore, king Solomon sent and brought him from the altar. And entering, he reverenced king Solomon. And Solomon said to him, "Go to your own house."</p>

</body>
</html>