<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Kings 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Kings 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Truly, Joram, the son of Ahab, reigned over Israel, in Samaria, in the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah. And he reigned for twelve years.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, but not as his father and mother did. For he took away the statues of Baal, which his father had made.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Yet truly, he did adhere to the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin; neither did he withdraw from these.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now Mesha, the king of Moab, raised many sheep. And he repaid to the king of Israel one hundred thousand lambs, and one hundred thousand rams, with their fleece.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when Ahab had died, he transgressed the pact that he had with the king of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, king Joram departed on that day from Samaria, and he took a count of all of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And he sent to Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, saying: "The king of Moab was withdrawn from me. Come to battle with me against him." And he responded: "I will go up. What is mine, is yours. My people are your people. And my horses are your horses."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he said, "Along which way shall we ascend?" So he responded, "Along the desert of Idumea."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Therefore, the king of Israel, and the king of Judah, and the king of Idumea, traveled, and they went by a circuitous path for seven days. But there was no water for the army or for the beasts of burden which were following them.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the king of Israel said: "Alas, alas, alas! The Lord has gathered we three kings, so that he might deliver us into the hands of Moab."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Jehoshaphat said, "Is there not a prophet of the Lord here, so that we may appeal to the Lord through him?" And one of the servants of the king of Israel responded, "Elisha, the son of Shaphat, is here, who poured water upon the hands of Elijah."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And Jehoshaphat said, "The word of the Lord is with him." And so, the king of Israel, with Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, and with the king of Idumea, descended to him.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then Elisha said to the king of Israel: "What is there between you and me? Go to the prophets of your father and your mother." And the king of Israel said to him, "Why has the Lord gathered these three kings, so that he might deliver them into the hands of Moab?"</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Elisha said to him: "As the Lord of hosts lives, in whose sight I stand, if I was not humbled by the face of Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, certainly I would neither have listened to you, nor have looked upon you.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> But now, bring a musician to me." And while the musician was playing, the hand of the Lord fell upon him, and he said:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> "Thus says the Lord: Make, in the channel of this torrent, pit after pit.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For thus says the Lord: You shall not see wind or rain. And yet this channel shall be filled with water. And you shall drink, you and your families, and your beasts of burden.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And this is small in the sight of the Lord. So, in addition, he will also deliver Moab into your hands.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And you shall strike every fortified town and every elect city. And you shall cut down every fruitful tree. And you shall obstruct all the sources of water. And you shall cover every excellent field with stones."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then it happened that, in the morning, when the sacrifices were usually to be offered, behold, water was arriving along the way of Idumea, and the land was filled with water.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then all the Moabites, hearing that the kings had ascended so that they might fight against them, gathered all who had been girded with a belt around them, and they stood at the borders.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And rising up in early morning, and when the sun was now rising before the waters, the Moabites saw the waters opposite them, which were red like blood.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And they said: "It is the blood of the sword! The kings have fought among themselves, and they have slain one another. Go now, Moab, to the spoils!"</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they went into the camp of Israel. But Israel, rising up, struck Moab, and they fled before them. And since they had prevailed, they went and struck down Moab.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And they destroyed the cities. And they filled up every excellent field, each one casting stones. And they obstructed all the sources of water. And they cut down all the fruitful trees, to such an extent that only brick walls remained. And the city was encircled by the slingers of stones. And a great part of it was struck down.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when the king of Moab had seen this, specifically, that the enemies had prevailed, he took with him seven hundred men who draw the sword, so that he might break through to the king of Idumea. But they were unable.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And taking his firstborn son, who would have reigned in his place, he offered him as a holocaust upon the wall. And there was great indignation in Israel. And they promptly withdrew from him, and they turned back to their own land.</p>

</body>
</html>