<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And so, all of Israel was numbered. And the sum of them was written in the book of the kings of Israel and of Judah. And they were taken away to Babylon because of their transgression.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now the first who lived in their possessions and in their cities were Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, and the temple servants.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Staying in Jerusalem were some from the sons of Judah, and from the sons of Benjamin, and also from the sons of Ephraim and of Manasseh:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Uthai, the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, from the sons of Perez, the son of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And from Shiloni: Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then from the sons of Zerah: Jeuel, and their brothers, six hundred ninety.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And from the sons of Benjamin: Sallu, the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hassenuah;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> and Ibneiah, the son of Jeroham; and Elah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri; and Meshullam, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and their brothers according to their families, nine hundred fifty-six. All these were leaders of their kindred, according to the houses of their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And from the priests: Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, and Jachin;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> and also Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the high priest of the house of God;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> then Adaiah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malchijah; and Maasai, the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and also their brothers, leaders according to their families, one thousand seven hundred sixty, very strong experience men, for the work of the ministry in the house of God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then from the Levites: Shemaiah, the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and also Bakbakkar the carpenter; and Galal; and Mattaniah, the son of Mica, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph;</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and Obadiah, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun; and Berechiah, the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, who lived at the entrance to Netophah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Now the gatekeepers were Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman; and their brother Shallum was the leader.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> For until that time, at the gate of the king to the east, the sons of Levi served in their turns.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Truly, Shallum, the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, with his brothers and his father's house, these Korahites, were over the works of the ministry of keeping the vestibules of the tabernacle. And their families, in turns, were keepers of the entrance to the camp of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, was their ruler before the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But Zechariah, the son of Meshelemiah, was the keeper of the gate of the tabernacle of the testimony.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> All these, chosen as porters for the gates, were two hundred twelve. And they were recorded in their own towns, those whom David, and the seer Samuel, appointed, in their faith,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> as with them, so also with their sons, at the gates of the house of the Lord and the tabernacle, by their turns.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> At the four directions, there were gatekeepers, that is, at the east, and at the west, and at the north, and at the south.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now their brothers were staying in the villages, and they arrived on their Sabbaths, from time to time.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> To these four Levites were entrusted the entire number of the gatekeepers, and they were over the chambers and storehouses of the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And they remained in their watches, on all sides of the temple of the Lord, so that, when the time had arrived, they might open the gates in the morning.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Some from their kindred were also over the vessels of the ministry. For the vessels were both carried in and carried out according to number.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Some of them also were entrusted with the equipment of the sanctuary; they were in charge of the fine wheat flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the aromatics.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now the sons of the priests composed the ointments from the aromatics.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And Mattithiah, a Levite, the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, was in charge of those things that were cooked in a frying pan.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now some of the sons of Kohath, their brothers, were over the bread of the presence, so that they might continually prepare it new for each Sabbath.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> These are the leaders of the singing men, according to the families of the Levites, who were dwelling in the chambers, so that they might carry out their ministry continually, day and night.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The heads of the Levites, leaders according to their families, abode in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Now in Gibeon, there lived Jeiel, the father of Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maacah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> His firstborn son was Abdon, and then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> as well as Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Then Mikloth conceived Shimeam. These lived opposite their brothers in Jerusalem, with their brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Now Ner conceived Kish, and Kish conceived Saul. And Saul conceived Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal. And Meribbaal conceived Micah.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Now the sons of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, and Ahaz.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And Ahaz conceived Jarah. And Jarah conceived Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. Then Zimri conceived Moza.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Truly, Moza conceived Binea, whose son, Rephaiah, conceived Eleasah, from of whom was born Azel.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Now Azel had six sons, whose names are: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, Hanan. These are the sons of Azel.</p>

</body>
</html>