<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the sons of Israel, according to their number, the leaders of the families, the tribunes, and the centurions, and the chiefs, who were ministering to the king by their companies, entering and departing in each month of the year as they were in charge, were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Jashobeam, the son of Zabdiel, was in charge of the first company in the first month; and under him were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He was from the sons of Perez, and he was the leader of all the other leaders in the army, in the first month.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The company of the second month had Dodai, an Ahohite; and after him there was another, named Mikloth, who ruled over a portion of the army of the twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Also, the commander of the third company, in the third month, was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the priest; and in his division there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The same is the Benaiah who was strongest among the thirty, and was above the thirty. But his son, Ammizabad, was in charge of his company.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The fourth, for the fourth month, was Asahel, the brother of Joab, and his son Zebadiah after him; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The fifth leader, for the fifth month, was Shamhuth, an Izrahite; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira, the son of Ikkesh, a Tekoite; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez, a Pelonite from the sons of Ephraim; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai, a Hushathite from the stock of the Zerahites; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer, an Anathothite from the sons of Benjamin; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai, and he was a Netophathite from the stock of the Zerahites; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah, a Pirathonite from the sons of Ephraim; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Heldai, a Netophathite from the stock of Othniel; and in his company there were twenty-four thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now those who were first over the tribes of Israel were these: over the Reubenites, Eliezer, the son of Zichri, was the ruler; over the Simeonites, Shephatiah, the son of Maacah, was the ruler;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> over the Levites, Hashabiah, the son of Kemuel; over the Aaronites, Zadok;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> over Judah, Elihu, the brother of David; over Issachar, Omri, the son of Michael;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> over the Zebulunites, Ishmaiah, the son of Obadiah; over the Naphtalites, Jeremoth, the son of Azriel;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> over the sons of Ephraim, Hoshea, the son of Azaziah; over the one half tribe of Manasseh, Joel, the son of Pedaiah;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and over the one half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo, the son of Zechariah; then over Benjamin, Jaasiel, the son of Abner;</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> yet truly, Azarel, the son of Jeroham, was over Dan. These were the leaders of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But David was not willing to number them from twenty years old and under. For the Lord had said that he would multiply Israel like the stars of heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Joab, the son of Zeruiah, had begun to number, but he did not finish. For because of this, wrath had fallen upon Israel. And therefore the number of those who had been counted was not related in the official records of king David.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now over the storerooms of the king was Azmaveth, the son of Adiel. But Jonathan, the son of Uzziah, was over those storerooms that were in the cities, and in the villages, and in the towers.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And over the farmlands and the farmers, those who worked the ground, was Ezri, the son of Chelub.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And over the cultivators of vineyards was Shimei, a Ramathite; then over the wine cellars was Zabdi, an Aphonite.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now over the olive groves and the fig groves, which were in the plains, was Baal-hanan, a Gederite; and over the oil cellars was Joash.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Now over the herds that were pastured in Sharon, Shitrai, a Sharonite, was in the first place; and over the oxen in the valleys, there was Shaphat, the son of Adlai.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Truly, over the camels was Obil, an Ishmaelite; and over the donkeys was Jehdeiah, a Meronothite.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And over the sheep was Jaziz, a Hagarene. All these were leaders over the substance of king David.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now Jonathan, the uncle of David, was a counselor, a prudent and scholarly man; he and Jehiel, the son of Hachmoni, were with the sons of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Now Ahithophel was the counselor of the king; and Hushai, the Archite, was the king's friend.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> After Ahithophel was Jehoiada, the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar. But the leader of the army of the king was Joab.</p>

</body>
</html>