<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 17</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 17</h2>

<p><a id="c17_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now when David was living in his house, he said to the prophet Nathan: "Behold, I live in a house of cedar. But the ark of the covenant of the Lord is under tent skins."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Nathan said to David: "Do all that is in your heart. For God is with you."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And yet, that night the word of God came to Nathan, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c17_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> "Go, and speak to my servant David: Thus says the Lord: You shall not build a house for me as a dwelling place.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> For I have not stayed in a house from the time when I led out Israel, even to this day. Instead, I have been continually changing places, in a tabernacle and tent,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> dwelling with all of Israel. When did I ever speak to any one at all, among the judges of Israel whom I placed in charge so that they might pasture my people, saying: 'Why have you not built a house of cedar for me?'</p>

<p><a id="c17_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And so, now you shall say this to my servant David: Thus says the Lord of hosts: I took you when you were following the flock in the pastures, so that you would be the leader of my people Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I have been with you wherever you have gone. And I have slain all your enemies before you, and I have made a name for you like one of the great ones who are celebrated upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And I have given a place to my people Israel. They shall be planted, and they shall live in it, and they shall no longer be moved. Neither shall the sons of iniquity wear them away, as in the beginning,</p>

<p><a id="c17_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> from the days when I gave judges to my people Israel, and I humbled all your enemies. Therefore, I announce to you that the Lord will build a house for you.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when you will have completed your days, so that you go to your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall be from your sons. And I will establish his kingdom.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He shall build a house for me, and I will make firm his throne, even unto eternity.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I will be a father to him, and he shall be a son to me. And I will not take away my mercy from him, as I took it away from the one who was before you.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And I will station him in my house and in my kingdom, even forever. And his throne will be very firm, in perpetuity."</p>

<p><a id="c17_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> According to all these words, and according to this entire vision, so did Nathan speak to David.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And when king David had departed, and had sat down before the Lord, he said: "Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my house, that you would grant such things to me?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But even this has seemed little in your sight, and therefore you have also spoken about the house of your servant even for the future. And you have made me a spectacle above all men, O Lord God.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> What more can David add, since you have so glorified your servant, and have known him?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O Lord, because of your servant, in accord with your own heart, you have brought about all this magnificence, and you have willed all these great things to be known.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> O Lord, there is no one like you. And there is no other God apart from you, out of all whom we have heard about with our ears.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> For what other single nation upon earth is like your people Israel, to whom God reached out, so that he might free them, and might make a people for himself, and by his greatness and terribleness cast out the nations before the face of those whom he had freed from Egypt?</p>

<p><a id="c17_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And you have set your people Israel to be your people, even unto eternity. And you, O Lord, have become their God.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now therefore, O Lord, let the word that you have spoken to your servant, and over his house, be confirmed in perpetuity, and do just as you have spoken.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And may your name remain and be magnified even for all time. And let it be said: 'The Lord of hosts is the God of Israel. And the house of his servant David remains forever before him.'</p>

<p><a id="c17_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> For you, O Lord my God, have revealed to the ear of your servant that you will build a house for him. And therefore your servant has found faith so that he might pray before you.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Now then, O Lord, you are God. And you have spoken to your servant such great benefits.</p>

<p><a id="c17_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And you have begun to bless the house of your servant, so that it may be always before you. For since it is you who is blessing, O Lord, it shall be blessed forever."</p>

</body>
</html>