<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Also, Hiram, the king of Tyre, sent messengers to David, and cedar wood, and artisans of walls and of wood, so that they might build a house for him.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And David realized that the Lord had confirmed him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom had been lifted up over his people Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also, David took other wives in Jerusalem. And he conceived sons and daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua and Shobab, Nathan and Solomon,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpelet,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> as well as Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphelet.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then, hearing that David had been anointed as king over all of Israel, all the Philistines ascended so that they might seek him. But when David had heard of it, he went out to meet them.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now the Philistines, arriving, spread out in the Valley of the Rephaim.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And so David consulted the Lord, saying, "Shall I ascend to the Philistines, and will you deliver them into my hand?" And the Lord said to him, "Ascend, and I will deliver them into your hand."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when they had ascended to Baal-perazim, David struck them there, and he said: "God has divided my enemies by my hand, just as waters are divided." And therefore the name of that place was called Baal-perazim.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they left behind their gods in that place, and so David ordered them to be burned.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And then, at another time, the Philistines invaded, and they spread out in the valley.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And again, David consulted God. And God said to him: "You shall not ascend after them. Draw away from them. And you shall come against them opposite the balsam trees.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And when you hear a sound approaching in the tops of the balsam trees, then you shall go forth to war. For God has gone forth before you, so that he may strike down the army of the Philistines."</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, David did just as God had instructed him. And he struck down the army of the Philistines, from Gibeon as far as Gazera.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the name of David became well-known in all the regions. And the Lord placed the fear of him over all the nations.</p>

</body>
</html>