<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the divisions of the porters were, from the Korahites: Meshelemiah, the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The sons of Meshelemiah: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the sons of Obededom: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sachar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth. For the Lord had blessed him.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now to his son Shemaiah, there were born sons, rulers of their families. For they were very strong men.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then the sons of Shemaiah were Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad and his brothers, very strong men, as well as Elihu and Semachiah.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> All these were from the sons of Obededom: they and their sons and brothers, very fit for the ministry, sixty-two from Obededom.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then there were the sons of Meshelemiah and their brothers, very robust men, eighteen.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now, from Hosah, that is, from the sons of Merari: Shimri the leader, for he had not had a firstborn son, and so, because of this, his father had appointed him as the leader,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth. All these, the sons and brothers of Hosah, were thirteen.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> These were distributed as porters, so that the leaders of the posts, as well as their brothers, were ministering continually in the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then they cast lots equally, for both the small and the great, by their families, concerning each one of the gates.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And the lot of the east fell out to Shelemiah. But to his son Zechariah, a very prudent and learned man, the northern section was obtained by lot.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Truly, Obededom and his sons obtained that to the south, in the part of the house where the council of elders was.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Shuppim and Hosah obtained that toward the west, beside the gate that leads to the way of the ascent, one post facing the other.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Truly, toward the east there were six Levites, and toward the north there were four per day, and then toward the south similarly there were four each day. And where the council was, there were two and two.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Also, in the cells of the porters toward the west, there were four along the way, and two at every cell.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These are the divisions of the porters of the sons of Kohath and of Merari.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now Ahijah was over the treasuries of the house of God, and the holy vessels.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The sons of Ladan, sons of Gershon: from Ladan, leaders of the families of Ladan and of Gershon: Jehieli.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sons of Jehieli: Zetham and Joel; his brothers were over the treasuries of the house of the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> with the Amramites, and Izharites, and Hebronites, and Uzzielites.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Now, Shebuel, the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was in the first place over the treasuries,</p>

<p><a id="c26_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> along with his brothers, Eliezer, and his son Rehabiah, and his son Jeshaiah, and his son Joram, and also his son Zichri, and his son Shelomoth.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The same Shelomoth and his brothers were over the treasuries of the holy things, which king David sanctified, with the leaders of the families, and the tribunes, and the centurions, and the commanders of the army.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> These things were from the wars and from the best spoils of the battles, which they had consecrated for the repair and the furnishing of the temple of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now all these things were sanctified by Samuel, the seer, and by Saul, the son of Kish, and by Abner, the son of Ner, and by Joab, the son of Zeruiah. All those who had sanctified these were under the hand of Shelomoth and his brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Yet truly, Chenaniah and his sons were over the Izharites, for the exterior works concerning Israel, in order to teach and to judge them.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now from the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brothers, one thousand seven hundred very strong men, were in charge of Israel across the Jordan toward the west, in all the works of the Lord, and in the ministry of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the leader of the Hebronites was Jerijah, according to their families and kindred. In the fortieth year of the reign of David, they were numbered, and there were found very strong men in Jazer Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And his brothers of a mature age were two thousand seven hundred leaders of families. Then king David placed them in charge of the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the one half tribe of Manasseh, in all of the ministries of God and of the king.</p>

</body>
</html>