<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 24</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 24</h2>

<p><a id="c24_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these were the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, and Abihu, and Eleazar, and Ithamar.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and without children. And so Eleazar and Ithamar exercised the priestly office.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And David distributed them, that is, Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their courses and ministry.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And there were found many more of the sons of Eleazar among the leading men, than of the sons of Ithamar. Therefore, he divided them so that there were, of the sons of Eleazar, sixteen leaders by their families, and of the sons of Ithamar eight by their families and houses.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then he divided among them, in both families, by lot. For there were leaders of the sanctuary and leaders of God, as much from the sons of Eleazar as from the sons of Ithamar.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the scribe Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel, a Levite, wrote these down before the king and the leaders, with Zadok, the priest, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, and also the leaders of the priestly and Levitical families. And there was one house, which was preeminent over the others, that of Eleazar; and there was another house, which had the others under it, that of Ithamar.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now the first lot went forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> These were their courses according to their ministries, so that they would enter into the house of the Lord in accord with their practice, under the hand of Aaron, their father, just as the Lord, the God of Israel, had instructed.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now of the sons of Levi who were remaining, there were Shubael, from the sons of Amram, and Jehdeiah, from the sons of Shubael.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Also, there were Isshiah, the leader from the sons of Rehabiah,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and truly Shelomoth, the son of Izhar, and Jahath, the son of Shelomoth,</p>

<p><a id="c24_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and his son, Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The son of Uzziel was Micah. The son of Micah was Shamir.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The brother of Micah was Isshiah. And the son of Isshiah was Zechariah.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi. The son of Uzziah was Beno.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Also, the son of Merari: Uzziah, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Hebri.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> In addition, the son of Mahli was Eleazar, who had no children.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Truly, the son of Kish was Jerahmeel.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The sons of Mushi were Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of Levi according to the houses of their families.</p>

<p><a id="c24_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And they also cast lots concerning their brothers, the sons of Aaron, before David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the leaders of the priestly and Levitical families, as much concerning the elder as the younger. The lot divided all things equitably.</p>

</body>
</html>