<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then all of Israel was gathered to David at Hebron, saying: "We are your bone and your flesh.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Also, yesterday and the day before, when Saul still reigned, you were the one who led out and brought in Israel. For the Lord your God said to you: 'You shall pasture my people Israel, and you shall be the leader over them.' "</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Therefore, all those greater by birth of Israel went to the king at Hebron. And David formed a pact with them before the Lord. And they anointed him king over Israel, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he spoke by the hand of Samuel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then David and all of Israel went to Jerusalem. The same is Jebus, where the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, were.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And those who were living in Jebus said to David: "You shall not enter here." But David seized the stronghold of Zion, which is the city of David.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he said, "Whoever shall strike the Jebusites first, shall be ruler and commander." And so Joab, the son of Zeruiah, ascended first, and he was made the leader.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then David lived in the stronghold, and for this reason it was called the City of David.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And he built up the city all around, from Millo even to every side. But Joab built the rest of the city.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And David continued advancing and increasing, and the Lord of hosts was with him.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> These are the leaders of the strong men of David, who assisted him, so that he would become king over all of Israel, in accord with the word of the Lord, which he spoke to Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And this is the number of the robust of David: Jashobeam, the son of a Hachmonite, leader among the thirty. He lifted up his spear over three hundred, who were wounded at one time.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And after him, there was Eleazar, the son of his uncle, an Ahohite, who was among the three powerful ones.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> He was with David in Pasdammim, when the Philistines were gathered to that place for battle. Now the field of that region was full of barley, but the people had fled from the face of the Philistines.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These men stood in the midst of the field, and they defended it. And when they had struck down the Philistines, the Lord gave a great salvation to his people.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Then three from the thirty leaders descended to the rock where David was, to the cave of Adullam, when the Philistines had made camp in the Valley of the Rephaim.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now David was in a stronghold, and a garrison of the Philistines was in Bethlehem.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And then David desired and said, "O if only someone would give me water from the well of Bethlehem, which is at the gate!"</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore, these three broke through to the midst of the camp of the Philistines, and they drew water from the well of Bethlehem, which was at the gate. And they took it to David, so that he might drink. But he was not willing; and instead, he offered it as a libation to the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> saying: "Far be it from me, that I would do this in the sight of my God, and that I would drink the blood of these men. For at the peril of their own lives, they brought the water to me." And for this reason, he was not willing to drink. The three most powerful accomplished these things.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Also, Abishai, the brother of Joab, was the leader of the three, and he lifted up his spear against three hundred, who were wounded. And he was most renown among the three,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and he was famous among the second three and their leader. Yet truly, he did not reach as far as the first three.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, from Kabzeel, was a very mature man, who had accomplished many deeds. He struck down the two lions of God from Moab. And he descended and killed a lion in the middle of a pit, in the time of snow.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he struck down an Egyptian man, whose stature was five cubits, and who had a spear like a weaver's beam. And yet he descended to him with a staff. And he seized the spear that he was holding in his hand. And he killed him with his own spear.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> These things were done by Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, who was most renowned among the three robust ones,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> the first among the thirty. Yet truly, he did not reach as far as the three. Then David placed him beside his ear.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Moreover, the strongest men of the army were Asahel, the brother of Joab; and Elhanan, the son of his uncle, from Bethlehem;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Shammoth, a Harorite; Helez, a Pelonite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Ira, the son of Ikkesh, a Tekoite; Abiezer, an Anathothite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Sibbecai, a Hushathite; Ilai, an Ahohite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Maharai, a Netophathite; Heled, the son of Baanah, a Netophathite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Ithai, the son of Ribai, from Gibeah, of the sons of Benjamin; Benaiah, a Pirathonite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Hurai, from the torrent Gaash; Abiel, an Arbathite; Azmaveth, a Baharumite; Eliahba, a Shaalbonite.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The sons of Hashem, a Gizonite: Jonathan, the son of Shagee, a Hararite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Ahiam, the son of Sachar, a Hararite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Eliphal, the son of Ur;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Hepher, a Mecherathite; Ahijah, a Pelonite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Hezro, a Carmelite; Naharai, the son of Ezbai;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Joel, the brother of Nathan; Mibhar, the son of Hagri;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Zelek, an Ammonite; Naarai, a Beerothite, the armor bearer of Joab, the son of Zeruiah;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Ira, an Ithrite; Gareb, an Ithrite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Uriah, a Hittite; Zabad, the son of Ahlai;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Adina, the son of Shiza, a Reubenite, the leader of the Reubenites, and thirty who were with him;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Hanan, the son of Maacah; and Joshaphat, a Mithnite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Uzzia, an Ashterathite; Shama and Jeiel, the sons of Hotham, an Aroerite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> Jediael, the son of Shimri; and Joha, his brother, a Tizite;</p>

<p><a id="c11_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Eliel, a Mahavite; and Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam; and Ithmah, a Moabite; Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel from Mezobaite.</p>

</body>
</html>