<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> The sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sons of Amram: Aaron, Moses, and Miriam. The sons of Aaron: Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Eleazar conceived Phinehas, and Phinehas conceived Abishua.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Truly, Abishua conceived Bukki, and Bukki conceived Uzzi.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Uzzi conceived Zerahiah, and Zerahiah conceived Meraioth.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then Meraioth conceived Amariah, and Amariah conceived Ahitub.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Ahitub conceived Zadok, and Zadok conceived Ahimaaz.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ahimaaz conceived Azariah; Azariah conceived Johanan.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Johanan conceived Azariah. He is the one who executed the priestly office in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Now Azariah conceived Amariah, and Amariah conceived Ahitub.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Ahitub conceived Zadok, and Zadok conceived Shallum.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Shallum conceived Hilkiah, and Hilkiah conceived Azariah.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Azariah conceived Seraiah, and Seraiah conceived Jehozadak.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now Jehozadak departed, when the Lord took away Judah and Jerusalem, by the hands of Nebuchadnezzar.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> So the sons of Levi were Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The sons of Kohath: Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. And so these are the kindred of Levi, according to their families.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Of Gershom: Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, Shaul his son.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> and Elkanah. The sons of Elkanah: Zophai his son, Nahath his son,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The sons of Samuel: Vasseni the firstborn, and Abijah.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Now the sons of Merari were: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> These are the ones whom David appointed over the singing men in the house of the Lord, in the place where the ark was located.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And they ministered before the tabernacle of the testimony with singing, until Solomon built the house of the Lord in Jerusalem. And they would stand according to their order in the ministry.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Truly, these are the ones who were assisting, with their sons, from the sons of Kohath: the singer Heman, the son of Joel, the son of Samuel,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> the son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> the son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> the son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> the son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And there was also his brother, Asaph, who was standing at his right, Asaph, the son of Berechiah, the son of Shimea,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> the son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchijah,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> the son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> the son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> the son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Now the sons of Merari, their brothers, were on the left: Ethan, the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> the son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> the son of Amzi, the son of Boni, the son of Shemer,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> the son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> There were also their brothers, Levites who were appointed for every ministry of the tabernacle of the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Truly, Aaron and his sons were burning offerings upon the altar of holocausts and upon the altar of incense, for the entire work of the Holy of Holies, and to pray on behalf of Israel, in accord with all the things that Moses, the servant of God, had instructed.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Now these are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> And these are their habitations according to the villages and confines, specifically of the sons of Aaron, according to the kindred of the Kohathites. For it fell to them by lot.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> And so, they gave Hebron, in the land of Judah, and its suburbs all around, to them,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> but they gave the fields of the city, and the villages, to Caleb, the son of Jephunneh.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> Then, to the sons of Aaron, they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, and Libnah with its suburbs,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> also Jattir and Eshtemoa with their suburbs, then also Hilen and Debir with their suburbs,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> as well as Ashan and Beth-shemesh with their suburbs.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> And from the tribe of Benjamin: Geba with its suburbs, and Alemeth with its suburbs, as well as Anathoth with its suburbs. All the cities throughout their kindred were thirteen.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> Now to the sons of Kohath, those remaining from their kindred, they gave ten cities, from the one half tribe of Manasseh, as a possession;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> and to the sons of Gershom, according to their families, from the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribe of Asher, and from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the tribe Manasseh in Bashan: thirteen cities.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> Then to the sons of Merari, according to their families, from the tribe of Reuben, and from the tribe of Gad, and from the tribe of Zebulun, they gave by lot twelve cities.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> Also, the sons of Israel gave, to the Levites, cities and their suburbs,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> and they gave them by lot, out of the tribe of the sons of Judah, and out of the tribe of the sons of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the sons of Benjamin, these cities, which they called by their names.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> And for those who were from the kindred of the sons of Kohath, the cities with their borders were from the tribe of Ephraim.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> Then they gave to them the cities of refuge: Shechem with its suburbs on mount Ephraim, and Gezer with its suburbs,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> as well as Jokmeam with its suburbs, and Beth-horon similarly,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> and indeed Hilen with its suburbs, and Gath Rimmon in the same manner.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> Then too, out of the one half tribe of Manasseh: Aner and its suburbs, Bileam and its suburbs; these in particular went to those who were remaining from the kindred of the sons of Kohath.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v71"></a><span class="vn">71</span> And to the sons of Gershom, from the kindred of the one half tribe of Manasseh: Golan, in Bashan, and its suburbs, and Ashtaroth with its suburbs;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v72"></a><span class="vn">72</span> from the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh and its suburbs, and Daberath with its suburbs,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v73"></a><span class="vn">73</span> as well as Ramoth and its suburbs, and Anem with its suburbs;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v74"></a><span class="vn">74</span> truly, from the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its suburbs, and Abdon similarly;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v75"></a><span class="vn">75</span> as well as Hukkok and its suburbs, and Rehob with its suburbs;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v76"></a><span class="vn">76</span> moreover, from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee and its suburbs, Hammon with its suburbs, and Kiriathaim and its suburbs.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v77"></a><span class="vn">77</span> Then to the remaining sons of Merari, from the tribe of Zebulun: Rimmono and its suburbs, and Tabor with its suburbs;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v78"></a><span class="vn">78</span> and also, across the Jordan opposite Jericho, facing the east of the Jordan, from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the wilderness with its suburbs, and Jahzah with its suburbs;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v79"></a><span class="vn">79</span> as well as Kedemoth and its suburbs, and Mephaath with its suburbs;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v80"></a><span class="vn">80</span> indeed also, from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead and its suburbs, and Mahanaim with its suburbs;</p>

<p><a id="c6_v81"></a><span class="vn">81</span> then too, Heshbon with its suburbs, and Jazer with its suburbs.</p>

</body>
</html>