<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now the sons of Issachar were Tola and Puah, Jashub and Shimron, four.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> The sons of Tola: Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Ibsam, and Shemuel, leaders according to the houses of their kindred. From the stock of Tola, there were numbered, in the days of David, twenty-two thousand six hundred very strong men.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sons of Uzzi: Izrahiah, from whom were born: Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, and Isshiah; all five were leaders.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And with them, by their families and peoples, there were thirty-six thousand very strong men, girded for battle. And they had many wives and children.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Also, their brothers, throughout all the kindred of Issachar, were numbered as eighty-seven thousand, very fit for battle.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The sons of Benjamin: Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The sons of Bela: Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth and Iri, five leaders of families, also very fit for battle; and their number was twenty-two thousand thirty-four.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Now the sons of Becher: Zemirah, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jeremoth, and Abijah, and Anathoth, and Alemeth: all these were sons of Becher.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they were numbered according to their families, by the leaders of their kindred, very strong in warfare, twenty thousand and two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the sons of Jediael: Bilhan, and the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tarshish, and Ahishahar.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> All these were sons of Jediael, the leaders of their kindred, very strong men, seventeen thousand and two hundred, going forth to battle.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Also, Shuppim and Huppim, the sons of Ir; and Hushim, sons of Aher.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then the sons of Naphtali: Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, sons of Bilhah.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Also, the son of Manasseh: Asriel. And his concubine, a Syrian, bore Machir, the father of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now Machir took wives for his sons, Huppim and Shuppim. And he had a sister named Maacah; but the name of the second was Zelophehad, and daughters were born to Zelophehad.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And Maacah, the wife of Machir, bore a son, and she called his name Peresh. And the name of his brother was Sheresh. And his sons were Ulam and Rakem.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then the son of Ulam: Bedan. These are the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And his sister, Regina, bore Ishhod, and Abiezer, and Mahlah.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now the sons of Shemida were Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi and Aniam.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And the sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son, whose son was Zabad,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and his son was Shuthelah, and his son was Ezer, and also Elead. But the men indigenous to Gath killed them, because they had descended to invade their possessions.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And so their father, Ephraim, mourned for many days; and his brothers arrived, so that they might console him.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he entered to his wife; she conceived and bore a son. And he called his name Beriah, because he rose up during a time of evil for his house.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Now his daughter was Sheerah, who built lower and upper Beth-horon, and also Uzzen-sheerah.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And Rephah was his son, and Resheph, and Telah, from whom was born Tahan,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> who conceived Ladan. And his son was Ammihud, who conceived Elishama,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> from whom was born Nun, who had Joshua as a son.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Now their possessions and habitations were: Bethel with her daughters, and toward the east, Naaran, and toward the western region, Gezer and her daughters, as well as Shechem with her daughters, as far as Ayyah with her daughters;</p>

<p><a id="c7_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> also, beside the sons of Manasseh, Bethshean and her daughters, Taanach and her daughters, Megiddo and her daughters, Dor and her daughters. In these places, there lived the sons of Joseph, the son of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The sons of Asher: Imnah, and Ishvah, and Ishvi, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel, the same is the father of Birzaith.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now Heber conceived Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and their sister Shua.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath; these are the sons of Japhlet.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Then the sons of Shomer: Ahi, and Rohgah, and Jehubbah, and Aram.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And the sons of Helem, his brother: Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> The sons of Jether: Jephunneh, and Pispa, and Ara.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Then the sons of Ulla: Arah, and Hanniel, and Rizia.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> All these were sons of Asher, the leaders of families, elect and very strong rulers among rulers. And the number of those who were of an age that was fit for warfare was twenty-six thousand.</p>

</body>
</html>