<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 20</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 20</h2>

<p><a id="c20_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now it happened that, after the course of a year, in the time when kings usually go forth to war, Joab gathered an army with experienced soldiers, and he laid waste to the land of the sons of Ammon. And he continued on and besieged Rabbah. But David was staying in Jerusalem when Joab struck Rabbah and destroyed it.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then David took the crown of Milcom from his head, and he found in it the weight of one talent of gold, and very precious gems. And he made for himself a diadem from it. Also, he took the best spoils of the city, which were very many.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then he led away the people who were in it. And he caused plows, and sleds, and iron chariots to go over them, so much so that they were cut apart and crushed. So did David treat all the cities of the sons of Ammon. And he returned with all his people to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> After these things, a war was begun at Gezer against the Philistines, in which Sibbecai the Hushathite struck Sippai from the race of the Rephaim, and he humbled them.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Also, another war was undertaken against the Philistines, in which Adeodatus, a son of the forest, a Bethlehemite, struck the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the wood of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then too, another war occurred in Gath, in which there was a very tall man, having six digits, that is, all together twenty-four. This man too was born from the stock of the Rephaim.</p>

<p><a id="c20_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He blasphemed Israel. And Jonathan, the son of Shimea, the brother of David, struck him down. These were the sons of the Rephaim in Gath, who fell by the hand of David and his servants.</p>

</body>
</html>