<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him from the daughter of Shua, the Canaanite. But Er, the firstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the Lord, and so he killed him.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Now Tamar, his daughter-in-law, bore to him Perez and Zerah. Therefore, all the sons of Judah were five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And the sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Also, the sons of Zerah: Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, as well as Calcol and Dara, five altogether.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The sons of Carmi: Achar, who disturbed Israel and sinned by the theft of what was anathema.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sons of Ethan: Azariah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the sons of Hezron who were born to him: Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Ram conceived Amminadab. And Amminadab conceived Nahshon, a leader of the sons of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Also, Nahshon conceived Salma, from whom Boaz rose up.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Truly, Boaz conceived Obed, who also himself conceived Jesse.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now Jesse conceived the firstborn Eliab, the second Abinadab, the third Shammah,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> the fourth Nethanel, the fifth Raddai,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> the sixth Ozem, the seventh David.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And Abigail conceived Amasa, whose father was Jether, the Ishmaelite.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Truly, Caleb, the son of Hezron, took a wife named Azubah, of whom he conceived Jerioth. And her sons were Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And when Azubah had died, Caleb took as wife Ephratha, who bore to him Hur.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Now Hur conceived Uri. And Uri conceived Bezalel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And afterwards, Hezron entered to the daughter of Machir, father of Gilead. And he took her when he was sixty years old. And she bore to him Segub.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And then Segub conceived Jair, and he possessed twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And he seized Geshur and Aram, towns of Jair, and Kenath and its villages, sixty cities. All these were sons of Machir, father of Gilead.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Then, when Hezron had died, Caleb entered to Ephratha. Also, Hezron had as wife Abia, who bore to him Ashhur, the father of Tekoa.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Now sons were born to Jerahmeel, the firstborn of Hezron: Ram, his firstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Jerahmeel also married another wife, named Atarah, who was the mother of Onam.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then too, the sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel, were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And Onam had sons: Shammai and Jada. And the sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Truly, the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, who bore to him Ahban and Molid.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Now the sons of Nadab were Seled and Appaim. And Seled died without children.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Truly, the son of Appaim was Ishi. And Ishi conceived Sheshan. Then Sheshan conceived Ahlai.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> But the sons of Jada, the brother of Shammai, were Jether and Jonathan. Then Jether also died without children.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Jonathan conceived Peleth and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Now Sheshan did not have sons, but only daughters, and an Egyptian servant named Jarha.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And so he gave to him his daughter as wife, who bore to him Attai.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Then Attai conceived Nathan, and Nathan conceived Zabad.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Also, Zabad conceived Ephlal, and Ephlal conceived Obed.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Obed conceived Jehu; Jehu conceived Azariah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Azariah conceived Helez, and Helez conceived Eleasah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Eleasah conceived Sismai; Sismai conceived Shallum.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Shallum conceived Jekamiah; then Jekamiah conceived Elishama.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> And the sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel, were Mesha, his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph, and the sons of Mesha, the father of Hebron.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Now the sons of Hebron were Korah, and Tapuah, and Rekem, and Shema.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then Shema conceived Raham, the father of Jorkeam. And Rekem conceived Shammai.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Bethzur.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Now Ephah, the concubine of Caleb, bore Haran, and Moza, and Gazez. And Haran conceived Gazez.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And the sons of Jahdai: Regem, and Jotham, and Geshan, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> And Maacah, the concubine of Caleb, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Then Shaaph, the father of Madmannah, conceived Sheva, the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea. Truly, the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> These were the sons of Caleb, the son of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratha: Shobal, the father of Kiriath-jearim;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> Salma, the father of Bethlehem; Hareph, the father of Bethgader.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> Now there were sons for Shobal, the father of Kiriath-jearim, who saw half the places of rest.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> And from the kindred of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, and the Puthites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites. From these, the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites went forth.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, the crowns of the house of Joab, and half the places of rest of the Zorathites,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> as well as the families of the scribes living in Jabesh, those singing and making music, and those dwelling in tents. These are the Kenites, who went forth from Calor, the father of the house of Rechab.</p>

</body>
</html>