<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 15</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 15</h2>

<p><a id="c15_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Also, he made houses for himself in the City of David. And built a place for the ark of God, and he set up a tent for it.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then David said: "It is illicit for anyone to carry the ark of God except the Levites, whom the Lord chose to carry it and to minister to himself, even unto eternity."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And he gathered all of Israel in Jerusalem, so that the ark of God might be brought into its place, which he had prepared for it.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Certainly, there were both the sons of Aaron and the Levites:</p>

<p><a id="c15_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> From the sons of Kohath, Uriel was the leader, and his brothers were one hundred twenty.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> From the sons of Merari: Asaiah was the leader, and his brothers were two hundred twenty.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> From the sons of Gershom: Joel was the leader, and his brothers were one hundred thirty.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> From the sons of Elizaphan: Shemaiah was the leader, and his brothers were two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the sons of Hebron: Eliel was the leader, and his brothers were eighty.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> From the sons of Uzziel: Amminadab was the leader, and his brothers were one hundred twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And David summoned the priests, Zadok and Abiathar, and the Levites: Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And he said to them: "You who are the leaders of the Levitical families, be sanctified with your brothers, and bring the ark of the Lord God of Israel to the place that has been prepared for it.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Otherwise, as it was before, when the Lord struck us because you were not present, so also it might be now, if we do what is illicit."</p>

<p><a id="c15_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Therefore, the priests and the Levites were sanctified, so that they might carry the ark of the Lord God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And the sons of Levi took the ark of God, just as Moses had instructed, in accord with the word of the Lord, upon their shoulders by the bars.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And David spoke to the leaders of the Levites, so that they might appoint, from their brothers, singers with musical instruments, specifically, psalteries, and harps, and cymbals, so that a joyful noise might resound on high.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they appointed from the Levites: Heman, the son of Joel; and from his brothers, Asaph, the son of Berechiah; and truly, from their brothers, the sons of Merari: Ethan, the son of Kushaiah.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And with them were their brothers in the second rank: Zechariah, and Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jahiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, who were gatekeepers.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Now the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were sounding out with cymbals of brass.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah were singing mysteries with the psalteries.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Then Mattithiah, and Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah and Obededom, and Jeiel and Azaziah were singing a song of victory with the harps, for the octave.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Now Chenaniah, the leader of the Levites, was foremost over the prophecies, in order to mark out in advance the melodies. For indeed, he was very skillful.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And Berechiah and Elkanah were porters of the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And the priests, Shebaniah, and Joshaphat, and Nethanel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, were sounding the trumpets before the ark of God. And Obededom and Jehiah were porters of the ark.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Therefore, David, and all those greater by birth of Israel, and the tribunes, went to carry the ark of the covenant of the Lord from the house of Obededom with rejoicing.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And when God had assisted the Levites, who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the Lord, they immolated seven bulls and seven rams.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Now David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, as were all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah, the leader of the prophecy among the singers. But David was also clothed with a linen ephod.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And all of Israel were leading back the ark of the covenant of the Lord with jubilation, sounding out with the noise of horns, and trumpets, and cymbals, and psalteries, and harps.</p>

<p><a id="c15_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And when the ark of the covenant of the Lord had arrived in the City of David, Michal, the daughter of Saul, gazing through a window, saw king David dancing and playing, and she despised him in her heart.</p>

</body>
</html>