<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 25</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 25</h2>

<p><a id="c25_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then David and the magistrates of the army set apart, for the ministry, the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who were to prophesy with harps and psalteries and cymbals, in accord with their number, having been dedicated to their appointed office.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> From the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asharelah, the sons of Asaph, under the hand of Asaph, prophesying beside the king.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Then of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, and Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hand of their father Jeduthun, who was prophesying with stringed instruments, while confessing and praising the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Also, of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer, and Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> All these were the sons of Heman, the seer of the king in the words of God, in order to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> All these, under their father's hand, were distributed in order to sing in the temple of the Lord, with cymbals and psalteries and harps, in the ministry of the house of the Lord beside the king, specifically, Asaph, and Jeduthun, and Heman.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now the number of these, with their brothers, who were instructing in the song of the Lord, all the teachers, were two hundred eighty-eight.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And they cast lots in their turns, the elder equally with the younger, the learned together with the unlearned.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the first lot went forth to Joseph, who was of Asaph; the second went forth to Gedaliah, to him and his sons and his brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The third went to Zaccur, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The fourth went to Izri, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The fifth went to Nethaniah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sixth went to Bukkiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The seventh went to Jesharelah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The eighth went to Jeshaiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The ninth went to Mattaniah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The tenth went to Shimei, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The eleventh went to Azarel, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The twelfth went to Hashabiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The thirteenth went to Shubael, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The fourteenth went to Mattithiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The fifteenth went to Jeremoth, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The sixteenth went to Hananiah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The seventeenth went to Joshbekashah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The eighteenth went to Hanani, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The nineteenth went to Mallothi, to his sons and his brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The twentieth went to Eliathah, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The twenty-first went to Hothir, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The twenty-second went to Giddalti, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The twenty-third went to Mahazioth, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c25_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The twenty-fourth went to Romamtiezer, to his sons and brothers, twelve.</p>

</body>
</html>