<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Adam, Seth, Enos,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Cainan, Mahalalel, Jared,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sons of Japheth: Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, Tubal, Meshech, Tiras.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And the sons of Javan: Elishah and Tarshish, Kittim and Rodanim.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sons of Ham: Cush, and Mizraim, and Put, and Canaan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And the sons of Cush: Seba, and Havilah, Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabteca. And the sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dadan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Then Cush conceived Nimrod, and he began to be powerful upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Truly, Mizraim conceived Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> as well as Pathrusim and Casluhim: from these the Philistines and the Caphtorim went forth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Truly, Canaan conceived Sidon, his firstborn, as well as the Hittite,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and also the Arvadian, and the Samarite, and the Hamathite.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sons of Shem: Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Arphaxad conceived Shelah, who also himself conceived Eber.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And to Eber were born two sons. The name of one was Peleg, because in his days the earth was divided. And the name of his brother was Joktan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Joktan conceived Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> as well as Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and then Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba, indeed</p>

<p><a id="c1_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> also Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these are the sons of Joktan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Eber, Peleg, Reu,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Serug, Nahor, Terah,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Abram, the same is Abraham.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And the sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And these are their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Jetur, Naphish, Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And the sons of Keturah, the concubine of Abraham, whom she conceived: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan: Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And the sons of Midian: Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Now Abraham conceived Isaac, whose sons were Esau and Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenez, and by Timna, Amalek.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, Mizzah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, Dishan.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> The sons of Lotan: Hori, Heman. Now the sister of Lotan was Timna.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The sons of Shobal: Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah. The sons of Anah: Dishon.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The sons of Dishon: Hamran, and Esheban, and Ithran, and Cheran.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> Now these are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before there was a king over the sons of Israel: Bela, the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> Then Bela died, and Jobab, the son of Zerah, from Bozrah, reigned in his place.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> And when Jobab also had died, Husham, from the land of the Temanites, reigned in his place.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> Then Husham also passed away, and Hadad, the son of Bedad, reigned in his place. And he struck the Midianites in the land of Moab. The name of his city was Avith.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> And when Hadad also had died, Samlah from Masrekah reigned in his place.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> Then Samlah also died, and Shaul from Rehoboth, which is situated beside a river, reigned in his place.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> Shaul also having died, Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, reigned in his place.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> Then he too died, and Hadar reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Pau. And his wife was called Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> And Hadar having died, there began to be commanders in Edom in place of kings: commander Thamna, commander Alvah, commander Jetheth,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> commander Oholibamah, commander Elah, commander Pinon,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> commander Kanez, commander Teman, commander Mibzar,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> commander Magdiel, commander Iram. These are the commanders of Edom.</p>

</body>
</html>