<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 12</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 12</h2>

<p><a id="c12_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Also, these went to David at Ziklag, while he was still fleeing from Saul, the son of Kish. And they were very strong and distinguished fighters,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> bending the bow, and using either hand in casting stones with slings, and shooting arrows. From the brothers of Saul, out of Benjamin:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the leader was Ahiezer, with Joash, sons of Shemaah from Gibeah, and Jeziel and Pelet, sons of Azmaveth, and Beracah and Jehu, from Anathoth.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Also, there was Ishmaiah, from Gibeon, the strongest among the thirty and over the thirty; Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Jozabad, from Gederah;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah, the Haruphites;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Elkanah, and Isshiah, and Azarel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, from Carehim;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and also Joelah and Zebadiah, sons of Jeroham, from Gedor.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then too, from Gad, there went over to David, when he was hiding in the desert, very robust men, who were excellent fighters, taking hold of shield and spear; their faces were like the faces of a lion, and they were swift like the roe deer upon the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Ezer was the leader, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,</p>

<p><a id="c12_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Jeremiah the tenth, Machbannai the eleventh.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> These were from the sons of Gad, leaders of the army. The least was in charge of one hundred soldiers, and the greatest was in charge of one thousand.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> These are the ones who crossed over the Jordan in the first month, when it is accustomed to overflow its banks. And they put to flight all those who were staying in the valleys, to the eastern region and to the west.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then some from Benjamin and from Judah also arrived at the stronghold where David was staying.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And David went out to meet them, and he said: "If you have arrived peacefully, so as to be a help to me, may my heart be joined to you; but if to betray me to my adversaries, though I have no iniquity in my hands, may the God of our fathers see and judge."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Truly, the Spirit clothed Amasai, the leader among the thirty, and he said: "O David, we are yours! O son of Jesse, we are for you! Peace, peace to you, and peace to your helpers. For your God helps you." Therefore, David received them, and he appointed them as leaders of troops.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Moreover, some from Manasseh crossed over to David, when he went forth with the Philistines against Saul, so that he might fight. But he did not fight with them. For the leaders of the Philistines, taking counsel, sent him back, saying, "To the peril of our own heads, he will return to his lord, Saul."</p>

<p><a id="c12_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And so, when he returned to Ziklag, some fled over to him from Manasseh: Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Adnah, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zillethai, leaders of thousands in Manasseh.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> These offered assistance to David against the robbers. For all were very strong men, and they became leaders in the army.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then, too, some came to David throughout each day, in order to help him, until they became a great number, like the army of God.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Now this is the number of the leaders of the army who went to David when he was at Hebron, so that they might transfer the kingdom of Saul to him, in accord with the word of the Lord:</p>

<p><a id="c12_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> the sons of Judah, carrying shield and spear, six thousand eight hundred, equipped for battle;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> from the sons of Simeon, very strong men for the fight, seven thousand one hundred;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> from the sons of Levi, four thousand six hundred;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> as well as Jehoiada, a leader from the stock of Aaron, and with him three thousand seven hundred;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and then Zadok, a youth of distinguished qualities, and the house of his father, twenty-two leaders;</p>

<p><a id="c12_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> and from the sons of Benjamin, brothers of Saul, three thousand, for still a great part of them were following the house of Saul.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Then from the sons of Ephraim, there were twenty thousand eight hundred, very strong and robust men, renowned among their kindred.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And out of the one half tribe of Manasseh, eighteen thousand, each by their names, went forth so that they might appoint David as king.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Also, from the sons of Issachar, there were learned men, who knew each of the times, in order to anticipate what Israel ought to do, two hundred leaders. And all the remainder of the tribe were following their counsel.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then, from Zebulun, there were those who went forth to battle, and who were standing in a battle line, prepared with the weapons of warfare; these fifty thousand arrived to assist, without duplicity of heart.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And from Naphtali, there were one thousand leaders; and with them were thirty-seven thousand, prepared with shield and spear.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> And then from Dan, there were twenty-eight thousand six hundred, ready for battle.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And from Asher, there were forty thousand, going forth to fight, and summoned to the battle line.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Then, across the Jordan, there were, from the sons of Reuben, and from Gad, and from the one half tribe of Manasseh, one hundred twenty thousand, prepared with the weapons of warfare.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> All these men of war, equipped for the fight, went with a perfect heart to Hebron, so that they might appoint David as king over all of Israel. Then, too, all the remainder of Israel were of one heart, so that they might make David king.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> And they were in that place with David for three days, eating and drinking. For their brothers had made preparations for them.</p>

<p><a id="c12_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> Moreover, those who were near to them, even as far as Issachar, and Zebulun, and Naphtali, were bringing, on donkeys and camels and mules and oxen, bread for their provisions, with grain, dried figs, dried grapes, wine, oil, and oxen and sheep, with all abundance. For indeed, there was joy in Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>