<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Truly, David had these sons, who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelite; the second Daniel, from Abigail the Carmelite;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> the third Absalom, the son of Maacah, daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth Adonijah, the son of Haggith;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> the fifth Shephatiah, of Abital; the sixth Ithream, from his wife Eglah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Therefore, six were born to him in Hebron, where he reigned for seven years and six months. Then he reigned for thirty-three years in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now in Jerusalem, sons were born to him: Shammua, and Sobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, these four from Bathsheba, the daughter of Ammiel;</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> also Ibhar and Elishama,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and Eliphelet, and Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> indeed also Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> All these were sons of David, aside from the sons of the concubines. And they had a sister, Tamar.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now the son of Solomon was Rehoboam, from whom Abijah conceived a son, Asa. And from him, there was born Jehoshaphat,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> the father of Jehoram. And Jehoram conceived Ahaziah, from whom there was born Jehoash.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And his son, Amaziah, conceived Azariah. Then Jotham, the son of Azariah,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> conceived Ahaz, the father of Hezekiah, from whom was born Manasseh.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then too, Manasseh conceived Amon, the father of Josiah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now the sons of Josiah were these: the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> From Jehoiakim was born Jeconiah and Zedekiah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sons of Jeconiah the captive were: Shealtiel,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, and Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> From Pedaiah, there rose up Zerubbabel and Shimei. Zerubbabel conceived Meshullam, Hananiah, and their sister Shelomith,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> as well as Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushab-hesed, five.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now the son of Hananiah was Pelatiah, the father of Jeshaiah, whose son was Rephaiah. And his son was Arnan, from whom was born Obadiah, whose son was Shecaniah.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The son of Shecaniah was Shemaiah, whose sons were these: Hattush, and Igal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six in number.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, and Hizkiaj, and Azrikam, three.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Delaiah, and Anani, seven.</p>

</body>
</html>