<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>1 Chronicles 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>1 Chronicles 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Benjamin conceived Bela as his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the sons of Bela were: Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> as well as Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> then also Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> These are the sons of Ehud, leaders of the kindred living in Geba, who were moved away to Manahath.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And Naaman, and Ahijah, and Gera, he also moved them away; and he conceived Uzza and Ahihud.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Then Shaharaim conceived, in the region of Moab, after he sent away Hushim and Baara, his wives;</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and so, of his wife Hodesh, he conceived Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcam,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and also Jeuz and Sachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, the leaders of their families.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Truly, of Hushim he conceived Abitub and Elpaal.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the sons of Elpaal were Eber, and Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod and its daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Now Beriah and Shema were leaders of their families living in Aijalon; these put to flight the inhabitants of Gath.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Ahio, and Shashak, and Jeremoth,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and Zebadiah, and Arad, and Eder,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> as well as Michael, and Ishpah, and Joha, were the sons of Beriah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Then Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hizki, and Heber,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and Ishmerai, and Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and Elienai, and Zillethai, and Eliel,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Then Ishpan, and Eber, and Eliel,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> and Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> and Hananiah, and Elam, and Anthothijah,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> and Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then Shamsherai, and Shehariah and Athaliah,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and Jaareshiah, and Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> These were the patriarchs and leaders of the families who were living in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Now in Gibeon, there lived Jeiel, the father of Gibeon; and the name of his wife was Maacah,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and his firstborn son was Abdon, and then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> and Gedor, and Ahio, and Zecher, and Mikloth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> And Mikloth conceived Shimeah. And they lived opposite their brothers in Jerusalem, with their brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Now Ner conceived Kish, and Kish conceived Saul. Then Saul conceived Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal conceived Micah.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The sons of Micah were Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> And Ahaz conceived Jehoaddah. And Jehoaddah conceived Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri conceived Moza.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> And Moza conceived Binea, whose son was Raphah, of whom was born Eleasah, who conceived Azel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> Now there were six sons for Azel, whose names were Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Then the sons of Eshek, his brother, were Ulam the firstborn, and Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> And the sons of Ulam were very robust men, drawing the bow with great strength. And they had many sons and grandsons, even to one hundred fifty. All these were sons of Benjamin.</p>

</body>
</html>