<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Rehoboam set out for Shechem. For in that place all of Israel had convened, so that they might appoint him as king.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But when Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, who was in Egypt, (indeed he had fled to that place from Solomon) had heard it, he promptly returned.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And they summoned him, and he arrived with all of Israel. And they spoke to Rehoboam, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> "Your father pressed upon us a very difficult yoke. You should govern us more lightly than your father, who imposed on us a heavy servitude, and so lift up some of the burden, so that we may serve you."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But he said, "Return to me after three days." And when the people had gone away,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> he took counsel with the elders, who had stood before his father Solomon while he was still living, saying, "What counsel would you give to me, so that I may respond to the people?"</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And they said to him, "If you please this people, and if you soothe them with words of clemency, they will be your servants for all days."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But he set aside the counsel of the elders, and he began to have discussion with the youth, who had been raised with him and who were among his companions.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he said to them: "How does it seem to you? Or how should I respond to this people, who have said to me, 'Lift up the yoke that your father imposed upon us?' "</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> But they responded like youths, having been raised with him in luxury, and they said: "So shall you speak to the people, who said to you, 'Your father made our yoke heavy; you should lighten it,' and so shall you respond to them: 'My little finger is thicker than the back of my father.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My father imposed a heavy yoke upon you, and I will place more weight upon it. My father cut you with whips; truly, I will beat you with scorpions.' "</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then Jeroboam, and the entire people, went to Rehoboam on the third day, just as he had instructed them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And the king responded harshly, abandoning the counsel of the elders.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he spoke according to the will of the youths: "My father imposed a heavy yoke upon you, which I will make heavier. My father cut you with whips; truly, I will beat you with scorpions."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he did not acquiesce to the pleadings of the people. For it was the will of God that his word be fulfilled, which he had spoken by the hand of Ahijah, the Shilonite, to Jeroboam, the son of Nabat.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then the entire people, speaking more harshly to the king, spoke to him in this way: "There is no portion for us in David, and there is no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Return to your dwellings, O Israel. Then you, O David, shall pasture your own house." And Israel went away to their dwellings.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> But Rehoboam reigned over the sons of Israel who were living in the cities of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And king Rehoboam sent Aduram, who was in charge of the tributes. And the sons of Israel stoned him, and he died. And so king Rehoboam hurried to climb into the chariot, and he fled to Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Israel withdrew from the house of David, even to this day.</p>

</body>
</html>