<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 19</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 19</h2>

<p><a id="c19_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Jehoshaphat, the king of Judah, returned in peace to his house in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the seer Jehu, the son of Hanani, met him, and said to him: "You offer assistance to the impious, and you are joined in friendship with those who hate the Lord. And for this reason, you certainly deserve the wrath of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But good works have been found in you. For you have taken away the sacred groves from the land of Judah. And you have prepared your heart, so as to seek the Lord, the God of your fathers."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then Jehoshaphat lived in Jerusalem. And again he went out to the people, from Beersheba as far as mount Ephraim. And he called them back to the Lord, the God of their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And he appointed judges of the land, in all the fortified cities of Judah, in each place.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And instructing the judges, he said: "Pay attention to what you are doing. For you exercise judgment, not of man, but of the Lord. And whatever you will have judged, it will come back to you.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let the fear of the Lord be with you, and do all things with diligence. For there is no iniquity with the Lord our God, nor respect of persons, nor desire for gifts."</p>

<p><a id="c19_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Jehoshaphat also appointed Levites and priests and leaders of families, out of Israel, in Jerusalem, so that they might judge the judgment and purpose of the Lord for its inhabitants.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And he instructed them, saying, "So shall you act: faithfully, in the fear of the Lord, and with a perfect heart.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Every case that will come to you from your brothers, who live in their cities, between kindred and kindred, wherever there is a question concerning law, commandment, ceremonies, or justifications, reveal it to them, so that they may not sin against the Lord, and so that wrath may not overwhelm you and your brothers. Then, by acting in this way, you will not sin.</p>

<p><a id="c19_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But Amariah, a priest and your high priest, shall preside over those things which pertain to God. Then Zebadiah, the son of Ishmael, who is a ruler in the house of Judah, shall be over those works that pertain to the office of the king. And you have before you the Levites as teachers. Be strengthened and act diligently, and the Lord will be with you for what is good."</p>

</body>
</html>