<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 33</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 33</h2>

<p><a id="c33_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Manasseh was twelve years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for fifty-five years in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But he did evil before the Lord, in accord with all the abominations of the nations which the Lord overturned before the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And turning away, he repaired the high places, which had been demolished by his father, Hezekiah. And he constructed altars to the Baals, and made sacred groves. And he adored the entire army of heaven, and he served them.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Also, he built altars in the house of the Lord, about which the Lord had said, "My name shall be in Jerusalem forever."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But he built these for the entire army of heaven, in the two courts of the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he caused his sons to pass through fire in the Valley of the son of Hinnom. He observed dreams, followed divinations, served the occult arts, had with him magicians and enchanters, and worked many evils before the Lord, so that he provoked him.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Also, he set up a graven image and molten statue in the house of God, about which God said to David, and to his son Solomon: "In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen from all the tribes of Israel, I will place my name forever.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And I will not cause the foot of Israel to be moved from the land which I delivered to their fathers. Yet this is so, only if they will take care to do what I have instructed them, by the hand of Moses, with the entire law and the ceremonies and the judgments."</p>

<p><a id="c33_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And so Manasseh seduced Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that they did evil, more so than all the nations which the Lord had overturned before the face of the sons of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the Lord spoke to him and to his people, but they were not willing to pay attention.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, he led over them the leaders of the army of the king of the Assyrians. And they captured Manasseh, and they led him, bound with chains and fetters, to Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And after this, being in great anguish, he prayed to the Lord his God. And he did penance greatly before the God of his fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he petitioned and begged him intently. And he heeded his prayer, and led him back to Jerusalem, into his kingdom. And Manasseh realized that the Lord himself was God.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> After these things, he built a wall outside the City of David, to the west of Gihon, at the steep valley, from the entrance to the fish gate, circling around as far as Ophel. And he raised it up greatly. And he appointed leaders of the army in all the fortified cities of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he took away the foreign gods, and the idol from the house of the Lord, and also the altars which he had made on the mount of the house of the Lord and in Jerusalem. And he cast all these things outside the city.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then he repaired the altar of the Lord, and he immolated upon it victims, and peace offerings, with praise. And he instructed Judah to serve the Lord, the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yet still the people were immolating on the high places, to the Lord their God.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> But the rest of the deeds of Manasseh, and his prayer to his God, and also the words of the seers who were speaking to him in the name of the Lord, the God of Israel, are contained in the words of the kings of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Also, his prayer and its heeding, and all his sins and contempt, and the sites on which he built high places and made sacred groves and statues, before he repented, have been written in the words of Hozai.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house. And his son, Amon, reigned in his place.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Amon was twenty-two years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for two years in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And he did evil in the sight of the Lord, just as his father Manasseh had done. And he immolated to all the idols that Manasseh had fabricated, and he served them.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> But he did not turn his face to the Lord, as his father Manasseh had turned himself. And he sinned much more grievously.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And when his servants had conspired against him, they killed him in his own house.</p>

<p><a id="c33_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But the rest of the multitude of the people, having slain those who had struck down Amon, appointed his son, Josiah, as king in his place.</p>

</body>
</html>