<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now Josiah kept the Passover to the Lord in Jerusalem, and it was immolated on the fourteenth day of the first month.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he appointed the priests in their offices, and he exhorted them to minister in the house of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also, he spoke with the Levites, by whose instruction all of Israel was sanctified to the Lord, saying: "Place the ark in the sanctuary of the temple, which Solomon, the son of David, the king of Israel, built. For never again shall you carry it. Instead, now you shall minister to the Lord your God, and to his people Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And prepare yourselves by your houses and families, within each division, just as David, the king of Israel, instructed, and just as his son Solomon has written.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And minister in the sanctuary, by the Levitical families and companies.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And having been sanctified, immolate the Passover. And then prepare your brothers, so that they may be able to act in accord with the words which the Lord has spoken by the hand of Moses."</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> After this, Josiah gave to all the people, those who had been found there at the solemnity of the Passover, thirty thousand lambs and young goats from the flocks, and other kinds of small cattle, and also three thousand oxen. All these were from the substance of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Also, his rulers offered what they had vowed freely, as much for the people as for the priests and Levites. Moreover, Hilkiah, and Zechariah, and Jehiel, rulers of the house of the Lord, gave to the priests, in order to observe the Passover, two thousand six hundred small cattle, and three hundred oxen.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Conaniah, with Shemaiah and Nethanel, his brothers, indeed also Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, rulers of the Levites, gave to the rest of the Levites, in order to celebrate the Passover, five thousand small cattle, and five hundred oxen.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And the ministry was prepared. And the priests stood in their office, and the Levites also stood in their companies, according to the order of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And the Passover was immolated. And the priests sprinkled the blood with their hand, and the Levites drew away the pelts of the holocausts.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And they put these aside, so that they might give them to each one, by their houses and families, and so that they might be offered to the Lord, just as it was written in the book of Moses. And with the oxen, they acted similarly.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And they roasted the Passover above fire, in accord with what was written in the law. Yet truly, the victims of peace offerings they boiled in cauldrons and kettles and pots. And they promptly distributed these to all the common people.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then afterward, they made preparations for themselves and for the priests. Indeed, the priests had been occupied in the oblations of the holocausts and the fat offerings, even until night. Therefore, the Levites made preparations for themselves and for the priests, the sons of Aaron, last.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Now the singers, the sons of Asaph, were standing in their order, according to the instruction of David, and of Asaph and Heman and Jeduthun, the prophets of the king. Truly, the porters kept watch at each gate, so as not to depart from their ministry even for one moment. And for this reason, their brothers, the Levites, prepared foods for them.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And so, the entire worship ritual of the Lord was completed on that day, so that they observed the Passover and offered holocausts upon the altar of the Lord, in accord with the precept of king Josiah.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And the sons of Israel, who had been found there, kept the Passover at that time, with the solemnity of unleavened bread, for seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> There was no Passover similar to this one in Israel, from the days of Samuel the prophet. And neither did anyone, out of all the kings of Israel, keep such a Passover as did Josiah, the priests and Levites, and all those of Judah and Israel who had been found, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah, this Passover was celebrated.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> After Josiah had repaired the temple, Neco, the king of Egypt, ascended to fight at Carchemish, beside the Euphrates. And Josiah went out to meet him.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But he sent messengers to him, saying: "What is there between me and you, O king of Judah? I have not come against you today. Instead, I am fighting against another house, to which God instructed me to go promptly. Refrain from acting against God, who is with me, otherwise he may kill you."</p>

<p><a id="c35_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Josiah was not willing to return. Instead, he prepared for war against him. Neither would he agree to the words of Neco from the mouth of God. In truth, he traveled so that he might do battle in the field of Megiddo.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And there, having been wounded by archers, he said to his servants: "Lead me away from the battle. For I have been severely wounded."</p>

<p><a id="c35_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And they took him from the chariot, into another chariot which was following him, as was the custom of kings. And they transported him to Jerusalem. And he died, and he was buried in the mausoleum of his fathers. And all of Judah and Jerusalem mourned for him,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> most of all Jeremiah. All the singing men and women repeat his lamentations over Josiah, even to the present day. And this has become like a law in Israel. Behold, it is found written in the Lamentations.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Now the rest of the words of Josiah, and his mercies, which were instructed by the law of the Lord,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> and also his works, the first and the last, have been written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>