<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Jotham was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. The name of his mother was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And he did what was right before the Lord, in accord with all that his father, Uzziah, had done, except that he did not enter into the temple of the Lord, and still the people were transgressing.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He improved the high gate of the house of the Lord. And he built many things upon the wall of Ophel.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Also, he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and fortresses and towers in the forests.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He fought against the king of the sons of Ammon, and he defeated them. And at that time, the sons of Ammon gave to him one hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand cor of wheat, and the same number of cor of barley. These things the sons of Ammon offered to him in the second and third year.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Jotham was strengthened, because he had directed his way before the Lord his God.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Now the rest of the words of Jotham, and all his battles and works, have been written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He was twenty-five years old when he had begun to reign, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the City of David. And his son, Ahaz, reigned in his place.</p>

</body>
</html>