<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 7</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 7</h2>

<p><a id="c7_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when Solomon had completed pouring out his prayers, fire descended from heaven, and it devoured the holocausts and the victims. And the majesty of the Lord filled the house.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Neither were the priests able to enter into the temple of the Lord, because the majesty of the Lord had filled the temple of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Moreover, all the sons of Israel saw the fire descending, and the glory of the Lord upon the house. And falling prone upon the ground, on the layer of pavement stones, they adored and praised the Lord: "For he is good. For his mercy is everlasting."</p>

<p><a id="c7_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Then the king and all the people were immolating victims before the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And so, king Solomon slaughtered victims: twenty-two thousand oxen, and one hundred twenty thousand rams. And the king and the entire people dedicated the house of God.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then the priests and the Levites were standing in their offices, with the instruments of music for the Lord, which king David made in order to praise the Lord: "For his mercy is eternal." And they were playing the hymns of David with their hands. And the priests were sounding out with trumpets before them, and all of Israel was standing.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Also, Solomon sanctified the middle of the atrium in front of the temple of the Lord. For he had offered the holocausts and the fat of peace offerings in that place because the bronze altar, which he had made, had not been able to support the holocausts and the sacrifices and the fat.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore, Solomon kept the solemnity, at that time, for seven days, and all of Israel with him, a very great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath, even to the torrent of Egypt.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And on the eighth day, he held a solemn gathering, because he had dedicated the altar over seven days, and he had celebrated the solemnity over seven days.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And so, on the twenty-third day of the seventh month, he dismissed the people to their dwellings, joyful and glad over the good that the Lord had done for David, and for Solomon, and for his people Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And Solomon completed the house of the Lord, and the house of the king, and all that he had resolved in his heart to do for the house of the Lord, and for his own house. And he prospered.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then the Lord appeared to him by night, and said: "I have heard your prayer, and I have chosen this place for myself as a house of sacrifice.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> If I close up heaven, so that no rain will fall, or if I order and instruct the locust to devour the land, or if I send a pestilence among my people,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and if my people, over whom my name has been invoked, being converted, will have petitioned me and sought my face, and will have done penance for their wicked ways, then I will heed them from heaven, and I will forgive their sins, and I will heal their land.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Also, my eyes will be open, and my ears will be attentive, to the prayer of him who shall pray in this place.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> For I have chosen and sanctified this place, so that my name may be there continually, and so that my eyes and my heart may remain there, for all days.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And as for you, if you will walk before me, just as your father David walked, and if you will act in accord with all that I have instructed you, and if you will observe my justices and judgments,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> I will raise up the throne of your kingdom, just as I promised to your father David, saying: 'There shall not be taken away a man from your stock who will be ruler in Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c7_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But if you will have turned away, and will have forsaken my justices and my precepts, which I have set before you, and going astray, you serve strange gods, and you adore them,</p>

<p><a id="c7_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I will uproot you from my land, which I gave to you, and from this house, which I sanctified to my name, and I will cast it away from before my face, and I will deliver it to be a parable and an example for all the peoples.</p>

<p><a id="c7_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And this house will be like a proverb to all who pass by. And being astonished, they shall say: 'Why has the Lord acted this way toward this land and toward this house?'</p>

<p><a id="c7_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And they shall respond: 'Because they abandoned the Lord, the God of their fathers, who led them away from the land of Egypt, and they took hold of foreign gods, and they adored and worshipped them. Therefore, all these evils have overwhelmed them.' "</p>

</body>
</html>