<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 4</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 4</h2>

<p><a id="c4_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Also, he made a brass altar of twenty cubits in length, and of twenty cubits in width, and of ten cubits in height,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> as well as a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in its circumference. It had five cubits in height, and a line of thirty cubits went around it on all sides.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Also, under it there was the likeness of oxen. And certain engravings encircled the cavity of the sea, along ten cubits of the outside, as if in two rows. Now the oxen were molten.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And the sea itself was placed upon the twelve oxen, three of which were looking toward the north, and another three toward the west, then another three toward the south, and the three that remained toward the east, having the sea imposed upon them. But the posteriors of the oxen were toward the interior, under the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now its thickness had the measure of the palm of a hand, and its brim was like the lip of a cup, or like the outturned petal of a lily. And it held three thousand measures.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Also, he made ten basins. And he placed five on the right, and five on the left, so that they might wash in them all the things that they were to offer as holocausts. But the priests were to be washed in the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Then he also made ten gold lampstands, according to the form by which they had been ordered to be made. And he set them in the temple, five on the right, and five on the left.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Moreover, there were also ten tables. And he placed them in the temple, five on the right, and five on the left. Also, there were one hundred gold bowls.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then too, he made the court of the priests, and a great hall, and doors in the hall, which he covered with brass.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Now he placed the sea on the right side, facing the east, toward the south.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Then Hiram made cooking pots and hooks and bowls. And he completed every work of the king in the house of God,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> that is, the two pillars, and the crossbeams, and the heads, and something like a little net, which would cover the heads above the crossbeams,</p>

<p><a id="c4_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> and also four hundred pomegranates, and two little nets, so that two rows of pomegranates were joined to each net, which would cover the crossbeams and the heads of the pillars.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He also made bases; and basins that he placed upon the bases;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> one sea, and twelve oxen under the sea;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> and cooking pots and hooks and bowls. Hiram, his father, made all the vessels for Solomon, in the house of the Lord, from the purest brass.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The king cast these in the region near the Jordan, in the clay soil between Succoth and Zeredah.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Now the multitude of the vessels was innumerable, so much so that the weight of the brass was unknown.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And Solomon made all the vessels for the house of God, and the gold altar, and the tables upon which were the bread of the presence;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and also, of the purest gold, the lampstands with their lamps, to shine before the oracle, according to the rite;</p>

<p><a id="c4_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and certain flowers, and lamps, and gold tongs. All these were made from the purest gold.</p>

<p><a id="c4_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Also, the vessels for the perfumes, and the censers, and the bowls, and the little mortars were from the purest gold. And he engraved the doors of the inner temple, that is, for the Holy of Holies. And the doors of the outer temple were of gold. And so, every work was completed that Solomon made in the house of the Lord.</p>

</body>
</html>