<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 32</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 32</h2>

<p><a id="c32_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After these things, and after this manner of truth, Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians arrived. And entering Judah, he besieged the fortified cities, desiring to seize them.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And when Hezekiah had seen this, specifically that Sennacherib had arrived, and that the entire force of the war was turning against Jerusalem,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> he took counsel with the rulers and with the most valiant men, so that they might obstruct the heads of the springs which were beyond the city. And with everyone discerning the same judgment about this,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> he gathered together a great multitude, and they obstructed all the springs, and the brook which was flowing through the midst of the land, saying: "Otherwise, the kings of the Assyrians might arrive and find an abundance of water."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Also, acting industriously, he built up the entire wall that had been broken apart. And he constructed towers upon it, and another wall outside it. And he repaired Millo, in the City of David. And he made all kinds of weapons and shields.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he appointed leaders of the warriors within the army. And he summoned them all to the wide street of the gate of the city. And he spoke to their heart, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c32_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> "Act manfully and be strengthened. Do not be afraid. Neither should you dread the king of the Assyrians and the entire multitude that is with him. For many more are with us than with him.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For with him is an arm of flesh; with us is the Lord our God, who is our helper, and who fights for us." And the people were strengthened by this type of words from Hezekiah, the king of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> After these things, Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians, sent his servants to Jerusalem, (for he and his entire army were besieging Lachish) to Hezekiah, the king of Judah, and to all the people who were in the city, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c32_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> "Thus says Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians: In whom do you have faith, as you sit besieged in Jerusalem?</p>

<p><a id="c32_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Does not Hezekiah deceive you, so that he would deliver you to die from hunger and thirst, by affirming that the Lord your God will free you from the hand of the king of the Assyrians?</p>

<p><a id="c32_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Is this not the same Hezekiah who destroyed his own high places and altars, and who instructed Judah and Jerusalem, saying: 'You shall worship before one altar, and you shall burn incense upon it?'</p>

<p><a id="c32_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Do you not know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of the lands? Have the gods of the nations and all the lands prevailed so as to free their region from my hand?</p>

<p><a id="c32_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Who is there, out of all the gods of the nations that my fathers destroyed, who is able to rescue his people from my hand, so that now also your God would be able to rescue you from this hand?</p>

<p><a id="c32_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Therefore, let not Hezekiah deceive or delude you with vain persuasion. And you should not believe him. For if no god out of all the nations and kingdoms was able to free his people from my hand, and from the hand of my fathers, consequently neither will your God be able to rescue you from my hand."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then too, his servants were speaking many other things against the Lord God, and against his servant Hezekiah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Also, he wrote letters full of blasphemy against the Lord God of Israel. And against him he said: "Just as the gods of other nations were unable to free their people from my hand, so also is the God of Hezekiah unable to rescue his people from this hand."</p>

<p><a id="c32_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Moreover, he also shouted with a great clamor, in the language of the Jews, toward the people who were sitting upon the walls of Jerusalem, so that he might frighten them and so seize the city.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And he was speaking against the God of Jerusalem, just as against the gods of the peoples of the earth, which are works of the hands of men.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And Hezekiah the king, and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, prayed against this blasphemy, and they cried out to heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the Lord sent an Angel, who struck all the experienced men and warriors, and the leaders of the army of the king of the Assyrians. And he returned in disgrace to his own land. And when he had entered the house of his god, the sons who had gone forth from his loins killed him with the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And the Lord saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib, the king of the Assyrians, and from the hand of all. And he presented to them peace on every side.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And now many were bringing victims and sacrifices to the Lord in Jerusalem, and gifts to Hezekiah, the king of Judah. And after these things, he was exalted before all the nations.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> In those days, Hezekiah was sick, even unto death, and he prayed to the Lord. And he heeded him, and gave to him a sign.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> But he did not repay according to the benefits which he had received, for his heart was lifted up. And so wrath was brought against him, and against Judah and Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And after this, he was humbled, because he had exalted his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And therefore the wrath of the Lord did not overwhelm them in the days of Hezekiah.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Now Hezekiah was wealthy and very famous. And he gathered for himself many treasures of silver and gold and precious stones, of aromatics, and all kinds of weapons, and vessels of great price,</p>

<p><a id="c32_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> and also repositories of grain, wine, and oil, and stalls for every beast of burden, and fencing for cattle.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And he built for himself cities. For indeed, he had innumerable herds and flocks of sheep. For the Lord had given to him an exceedingly great substance.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> This same Hezekiah was the one who blocked the upper font of the waters of Gihon, and who diverted them down to the western part of the City of David. In all his works, he prosperously accomplished whatever he willed.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Yet still, concerning the legates from the leaders of Babylon, who had been sent to him so that they might inquire about the portent which had happened upon the earth, God permitted him to be tempted, so that everything might be made known which was in his heart.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Now the rest of the words of Hezekiah, and his mercies, have been written in the vision of the prophet Isaiah, the son of Amos, and in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c32_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And Hezekiah slept with his fathers. And they buried him above the sepulchers of the sons of David. And all of Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, celebrated his funeral. And his son, Manasseh, reigned in his place.</p>

</body>
</html>