<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 11</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 11</h2>

<p><a id="c11_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Rehoboam went to Jerusalem, and he called together the entire house of Judah and of Benjamin, one hundred eighty thousand elect men of war, so that he might contend against Israel, and turn back his kingdom to himself.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And the word of the Lord came to Shemaiah, the man of God, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> "Speak to Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, the king of Judah, and to all of Israel who are of Judah, or of Benjamin:</p>

<p><a id="c11_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Thus says the Lord: You shall not ascend and fight against your brothers. Let each one return to his own house. For it is by my will that this has happened." And when they had heard the word of the Lord, they turned back, and they did not continue on against Jeroboam.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Then Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem, and he built fortified cities in Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he built up Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and also Bethzur, and Soco, and Adullam,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> indeed also Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> then too Adoram, and Lachish, and Azekah,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> as well as Zorah, and Aijalon, and Hebron, which were very fortified cities in Judah and in Benjamin.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And when he had enclosed them with walls, he placed in them rulers, and storehouses of provisions, that is, of oil and wine.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Moreover, in each city he made an armory of shields and spears, and he strengthened them with the utmost diligence. And he ruled over Judah and Benjamin.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Then the priests and Levites, who were in all of Israel, came to him from all their settlements,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> leaving behind their suburbs and possessions, and crossing over to Judah and to Jerusalem. For Jeroboam and his followers had cast them out, so that they could not exercise the priestly office to the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And he appointed for himself priests of high places, and of demons, and of calves that he had made.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Moreover, out of all the tribes of Israel, whosoever would give their heart so that they sought the Lord God of Israel, they went to Jerusalem to immolate their victims before the Lord, the God of their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and they confirmed Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, for three years. For they walked in the ways of David and of Solomon, but only for three years.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Then Rehoboam took as wife Mahalath, the daughter of Jerimoth, son of David, and also Abihail, the daughter of Eliab, son of Jesse.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> They bore sons for him: Jeush, and Shemariah, and Zaham.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And also after her, he married Maacah, the daughter of Absalom, who bore for him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> But Rehoboam loved Maacah, the daughter of Absalom, above all his wives and concubines. For he had taken eighteen wives and sixty concubines. And he conceived twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c11_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Truly, he appointed as the head, Abijah, the son of Maacah, to be the ruler over all his brothers. For he thought to make him king,</p>

<p><a id="c11_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> since he was wiser and more powerful than all his sons, even in all the regions of Judah and Benjamin, and in all the fortified cities. And he provided them with very much food, and he sought many wives.</p>

</body>
</html>