<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Solomon said: "The Lord has promised that he would dwell in a cloud.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> But I have built a house to his name, so that he may dwell there forever."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And the king turned his face, and he blessed the entire multitude of Israel, (for the whole crowd was standing and attentive) and he said:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> "Blessed is the Lord, the God of Israel, who has completed the work that he spoke to David my father, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> 'From the day when I led my people away from the land of Egypt, I did not choose a city from all the tribes of Israel, so that a house would be built in it to my name. And I did not choose any other man, so that he would be the ruler of my people Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But I chose Jerusalem, so that my name would be in it. And I chose David, so that I might appoint him over my people Israel.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And though David, my father, had decided that he would build a house to the name of the Lord God of Israel,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> the Lord said to him: 'In so far as it was your will that you build a house to my name, certainly you have done well in having such a will.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But you shall not build the house. Truly, your son, who will go forth from your loins, shall build a house to my name.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Therefore, the Lord has accomplished his word, which he had spoken. And I have risen up in place of my father David, and I sit upon the throne of Israel, just as the Lord spoke. And I have built a house to the name of the Lord, the God of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I have placed in it the ark, in which is the covenant of the Lord that he formed with the sons of Israel."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Then he stood before the altar of the Lord, facing the entire multitude of Israel, and he extended his hands.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For indeed, Solomon had made a bronze base, and he had positioned it in the midst of the hall; it held five cubits in length, and five cubits in width, and three cubits in height. And he stood upon it. And next, kneeling down while facing the entire multitude of Israel, and lifting up his palms towards heaven,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> he said: "O Lord God of Israel, there is no god like you in heaven or on earth. You preserve covenant and mercy with your servants, who walk before you with all their hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You fulfilled for your servant David, my father, whatsoever you had said to him. And you carried out the deed that you promised with your mouth, just as the present time proves.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Now then, O Lord God of Israel, fulfill for your servant David, my father, whatsoever you said to him, saying: 'There shall not fail to be a man from you before me, who will sit upon the throne of Israel, yet only if your sons will guard their ways, and will walk in my law, just as you also have walked before me.'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And now, O Lord God of Israel, let your word be confirmed that you spoke to your servant David.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> How then is it to be believe that God would dwell with men upon the earth? If heaven and the heavens of the heavens do not contain you, how much less this house that I have built?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> But it has been done for this only, so that you may look with favor upon the prayer of your servant, and on his supplication, O Lord my God, and so that you may hear the prayers which your servant pours out before you,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> and so that you may open your eyes over this house, day and night, over the place where you promised that your name would be invoked,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and so that you may heed the prayer which your servant is praying within it, and so that you may heed the prayers of your servant and of your people Israel. Whoever will pray in this place, listen from your habitation, that is, from heaven, and forgive.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> If anyone will have sinned against his neighbor, and he arrives to swear against him, and to bind himself with a curse before the altar in this house,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> you will hear him from heaven, and you will execute justice for your servants, so that you return, to the iniquitous man, his own way upon his own head, and so that you vindicate the just man, repaying him according to his own justice.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> If your people Israel will have been overwhelmed by their enemies, (for they will sin against you) and having been converted will do penance, and if they will have beseeched your name, and will have prayed in this place,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> you will heed them from heaven, and you will forgive the sin of your people Israel, and you will lead them back into the land that you gave to them and to their fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> If the heavens have been closed, so that rain does not fall, because of the sin of the people, and if they will petition you in this place, and confess to your name, and be converted from their sins when you will afflict them,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> heed them from heaven, O Lord, and forgive the sins of your servants and of your people Israel, and teach them the good way, by which they may advance, and give rain to the land that you gave to your people as a possession.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> If a famine will have risen up in the land, or pestilence, or fungus, or mildew, or locusts, or beetles, or if enemies will have laid waste to the countryside and will have besieged the gates of the cities, or whatever scourge or infirmity will have pressed upon them,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> if anyone from your people Israel, knowing his own scourge and infirmity, will have made supplication and will have extended his hands in this house,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> you will heed him from heaven, indeed from your sublime habitation, and you will forgive, and you will repay each one according to his ways, which you know him to hold in his heart. For you alone know the hearts of the sons of men.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> So may they fear you, and so may they walk in your ways, during all the days that they live upon the face of the land, which you gave to our fathers.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Also, if the outsider, who is not from your people Israel, will have arrived from a far away land, because of your great name, and because of your robust hand and your outstretched arm, and if he will adore in this place,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> you will heed him from heaven, your most firm habitation, and you will accomplish all the things about which this sojourner will have called out to you, so that all the people of the earth may know your name, and may fear you, just as your people Israel do, and so that they may know that your name is invoked over this house, which I have built.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> If, having gone out to war against their adversaries along the way that you will send them, your people adore you facing in the direction of this city, which you have chosen, and of this house, which I have built to your name,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> you will heed their prayers from heaven, and their supplications, and you will vindicate them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> But if they will have sinned against you (for there is no man who does not sin) and you will have become angry against them, and if you will have delivered them to their enemies, and so they lead them away as captives to a far away land, or even to one that is near,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> and if, having been converted in their heart in the land to which they had been led as captives, they will do penance, and beseech you in the land of their captivity, saying, 'We have sinned; we have committed iniquity; we have acted unjustly,'</p>

<p><a id="c6_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and if they will have returned to you, with their whole heart and with their whole soul, in the land of their captivity to which they were led away, and if they will adore you in the direction of their own land, which you gave to their fathers, and of the city, which you have chosen, and of the house, which I have built to your name,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> from heaven, that is, from your firm habitation, you will heed their prayers, and you will accomplish judgment, and you will forgive your people, even though they are sinners.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> For you are my God. Let your eyes be open, I beg you, and let your ears be attentive to the prayer that is made in this place.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Now therefore, rise up, O Lord God, to your resting place, you and the ark of your strength. Let your priests, O Lord God, be clothed with salvation, and let your holy ones rejoice in what is good.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> O Lord God, may you not turn away from the face of your Christ. Remember the mercies of your servant, David."</p>

</body>
</html>