<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>2 Chronicles 31</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>2 Chronicles 31</h2>

<p><a id="c31_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And when these things had been celebrated according to ritual, all of Israel who had been found in the cities of Judah went forth, and they broke apart the idols and cut down the sacred groves. They demolished the high places and destroyed the altars, not only out of all Judah and Benjamin, but also out of Ephraim as well as Manasseh, until they utterly destroyed them. And all the sons of Israel returned to their possessions and cities.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Then Hezekiah appointed the companies of the priests and Levites by their divisions, each man in his proper office, certainly as much for the priests as for the Levites, for the sake of holocausts and peace offerings, so that they might minister and confess and sing, at the gates of the camp of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now the portion of the king, from his own substance, was such that they could offer a holocaust always, in morning and in evening, also on the Sabbaths, and the new moons, and the other solemnities, just as it was written in the law of Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And now he instructed the people living in Jerusalem that they were to give portions to the priests and Levites, so that they would be able to attend to the law of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when this had reached the ears of the multitude, the sons of Israel brought an abundance of first-fruits of grain, wine, and oil, and also honey. And they offered a tenth part of all that the soil brings forth.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Then too, the sons of Israel and Judah, who were living in the cities of Judah, brought tithes of oxen and sheep, and tithes of the holy things that they had vowed to the Lord their God. And carrying all these things, they made many stacks.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the third month, they began to lay out the foundations of the stacks. And in the seventh month, they finished them.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And when Hezekiah and his rulers had entered, they saw the stacks, and they blessed the Lord and the people of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And Hezekiah questioned the priests and Levites, as to why the stacks were laid out in this way.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Azariah, the high priest from the stock of Zadok, answered him, saying: "Since the first-fruits began to be offered in the house of the Lord, we have eaten and been satisfied, and much remains. For the Lord has blessed his people. Then what was left over is this great abundance, which you see."</p>

<p><a id="c31_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And so Hezekiah instructed that they should prepare storage places for the house of the Lord. And when they had done so,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> they faithfully brought in the first-fruits, as well as the tithes and all that they had vowed. Now the overseer of these things was Conaniah, a Levite; and his brother, Shimei, was second.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And after him, there was Jehiel, and Azariah, and Nahath, and Asaahel, and Jerimoth, and also Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, who were overseers under the hands of Conaniah, and his brother, Shimei, by the authority of Hezekiah, the king, and Azariah, the high priest of the house of God, to whom all these things belonged.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Yet truly, Kore, the son of Imnah, a Levite and the porter of the eastern gate, was the overseer of the things that were being offered freely to the Lord, and of the first-fruits, and of the things consecrated for the Holy of Holies.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And under his charge were Eden, and Benjamin, Jeshua, and Shemaiah, and also Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, so that they would distribute faithfully to their brothers, the small as well as the great, their portions</p>

<p><a id="c31_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> (except for the males from three years old and upward) for all who were entering the temple of the Lord, and for whatever was needed for the ministry, throughout each day, as well as for the observances according to their divisions.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And so, for the priests, by their families, and for the Levites, from the twentieth year and upward, by their orders and companies,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> and for the entire multitude, as much for the wives as for their children of both sexes, provisions were offered faithfully from whatever had been sanctified.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then too, men were appointed of the sons of Aaron, throughout the fields and the suburbs of each city, who would distribute portions to all the males among the priests and Levites.</p>

<p><a id="c31_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Therefore, Hezekiah did all these things (which we have said) in all of Judah. And he worked what is good and upright and true before the Lord his God,</p>

<p><a id="c31_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> for the whole service of the ministry of the house of the Lord, in accord with the law and the ceremonies, desiring to seek his God with his whole heart. And he did so, and he prospered.</p>

</body>
</html>