<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezra 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezra 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then king Darius instructed, and they searched in the library of books that were deposited in Babylon.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And there was found at Ecbatana, which is a fortified place in the province of Media, one volume, and this record was written in it:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> "In the first year of king Cyrus, Cyrus the king decreed that the house of God, which is in Jerusalem, shall be built in the place where they immolate victims, and that they should set the foundations so as to support a height of sixty cubits and a width of sixty cubits,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> with three rows of rough stones, and so as to have rows of new timber, and that the expenses shall be given from the house of the king.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> But also, let the gold and silver vessels of the temple of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took from the temple of Jerusalem, and which he carried away to Babylon, be restored and be carried back to the temple of Jerusalem, to their place, just as they had been placed in the temple of God.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Now therefore, let Tattenai, the governor of the region which is beyond the river, Shetharbozenai, and your counselors, the rulers who are beyond the river, withdraw far away from them,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> and let this temple of God be released to the governor of the Jews and to their elders, so that they may build that house of God in its place.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Moreover, it has been instructed by me as to what ought to be done by those priests of the Jews, so that the house of God may be built, specifically, that from the king's treasury, that is, from the tribute which is taken from the region beyond the river, the expenses shall be scrupulously given to those men, so that the work may not be impeded.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> But if it may be necessary, let also calves, and lambs, and young goats for holocausts to the God of heaven, with grain, salt, wine, and oil, according to the rite of the priests who are in Jerusalem, be given to them for each day, so that there may be no complaint in anything.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And let them offer oblations to the God of heaven, and let them pray for the life of the king and for the lives of his sons.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Therefore, the decree has been set forth by me, so that, if there be any man who will change this order, a beam shall be taken from his own house, and it shall be set up, and he shall be nailed to it. Then his house shall be confiscated.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> So then, may the God who has caused his name to live there destroy any kingdoms or people who would extend their hand to fight against or to destroy that house of God, which is in Jerusalem. I, Darius, have established the decree, which I wish to be fulfilled scrupulously."</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, Tattenai, the governor of the region beyond the river, and Shetharbozenai, and his counselors, in accord with what king Darius had instructed, diligently executed the same.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Then the elders of the Jews were building and prospering, in accord with the prophecy of Haggai, the prophet, and Zechariah, the son of Iddo. And they built and constructed by the order of the God of Israel, and by the order of Cyrus and Darius, as well as Artaxerxes, the kings of the Persians.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And they completed this house of God on the third day of the month of Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of king Darius.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Then the sons of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the remainder of the sons of the transmigration celebrated the dedication of the house of God with gladness.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they offered, for the dedication of the house of God, one hundred calves, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs, and, as a sin offering for all of Israel, twelve he-goats from among the goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And they appointed the priests into their divisions, and the Levites into their turns, over the works of God in Jerusalem, just as it was written in the book of Moses.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Then the sons of Israel of the transmigration kept the Passover, on the fourteenth day of the first month.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For the priests and Levites had been purified as one. All were cleansed in order to immolate the Passover for all the sons of the transmigration, and for their brothers, the priests, and for themselves.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And the sons of Israel, who had been returned from the transmigration, and all those who had separated themselves from the defilement of the Gentiles of the earth to them, so that they might seek the Lord, the God of Israel, ate</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and kept the solemnity of unleavened bread for seven days with joy. For the Lord had made them joyful, and he had converted the heart of the king of Assur to them, so that he would assist their hands in the work of the house of the Lord, the God of Israel.</p>

</body>
</html>