<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezra 10</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezra 10</h2>

<p><a id="c10_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Therefore, as Ezra was praying, and imploring, and weeping in this way, and was prostrate before the temple of God, an exceedingly great assembly of men and women and children was gathered to him from Israel. And the people wept with a great weeping.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And Shecaniah, the son of Jehiel, from the sons of Elam, responded and said to Ezra: "We have sinned against our God, and have taken foreign wives from the peoples of the land. And now, if there is repentance within Israel over this,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> let us strike a pact with the Lord our God, so that we may cast aside all the wives, and those who have been born from them, in accord with the will of the Lord, and of those who fear the precept of the Lord our God. So let it be done, according to the law.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Rise up. It is for you to discern, and we shall be with you. Be strengthened and act."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Therefore, Ezra rose up, and he caused the leaders of the priests and the Levites, and all of Israel, to swear that they would act in accord with this word. And they swore it.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Ezra rose up before the house of God, and he went away to the chamber of Jehohanan, the son of Eliashib, and he entered into it. He did not eat bread, and he did not drink water. For he was mourning the transgression of those who had arrived from the captivity.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And a voice was sent into Judah and Jerusalem, to all the sons of the transmigration, so that they would gather together in Jerusalem.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And all those who would not arrive within three days, in accord with the counsel of the leaders and the elders, would have all his substance taken away, and he would be cast out of the assembly of the transmigration.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And so, all the men of Judah and of Benjamin convened in Jerusalem within three days. This was in the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month. And all the people sat in the street of the house of God, trembling because of the sin and the rain.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And Ezra, the priest, rose up, and he said to them: "You have transgressed, and you have taken foreign wives, so that you added to the offenses of Israel.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And now, make confession to the Lord, the God of your fathers, and do what pleases him, and separate yourselves from the peoples of the land, and from your foreign wives."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the entire multitude responded, and they said with a great voice: "In accord with your word to us, so let be it done.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Yet truly, since the people are many, and it is the time of rain, and we cannot endure standing outside, and this is not a task for one or two days, (for certainly we have sinned greatly in this matter,)</p>

<p><a id="c10_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> let leaders be appointed among the entire multitude. And in all our cities, let those who have taken foreign wives arrive at appointed times, and with them the elders from city to city, and the judges, until the wrath of our God has been averted from us over this sin."</p>

<p><a id="c10_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And so Jonathan, the son of Asahel, and Jahzeiah, the son of Tikvah, were appointed over this, and the Levites Meshullam and Shabbethai assisted them.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And the sons of the transmigration did so. And Ezra, the priest, and the men who were the leaders of the families in the houses of their fathers, and all according to their names, went and sat down, on the first day of the tenth month, so that they might examine the matter.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And they made an end with all the men who had taken foreign wives, by the first day of the first month.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And there were found among the sons of the priests some who had taken foreign wives: From the sons of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and his brothers, Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And they swore with their hands that they would cast aside their wives, and that they would offer for their offense a ram from among the sheep.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> And from the sons of Immer, Hanani and Zebadiah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And from the sons of Harim, Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And from the sons of Pashhur, Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> And from the sons of the Levites, Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah, the same is Kelita, Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> And from the singing men, Eliashib. And from the gatekeepers, Shallum, and Telem, and Uri.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And out of Israel, from the sons of Parosh, Ramiah, and Izziah, and Malchijah, and Mijamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And from the sons of Elam, Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Elijah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> And from the sons of Zattu, Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And from the sons of Bebai, Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, Athlai.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> And from the sons of Bani, Meshullam, and Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub, and Sheal, and Ramoth.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And from the sons of Pahath-moab, Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah, and Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui, and Manasseh.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And from the sons of Harim, Eliezer, Jeshua, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Simeon,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Benjamin, Malluch, Shemariah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> And from the sons of Hashum, Mattenai, Mattettah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, Shimei.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> From the sons of Bani, Maadai, Amram, and Uel,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Benaiah, and Bedeiah, Cheluhi,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Vaniah, Meremoth, and Eliashib,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Mattaniah, Mattenai, and Jaasu,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> and Bani, and Binnui, Shimei,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> and Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> and Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Azarel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah,</p>

<p><a id="c10_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> Shallum, Amariah, Joseph.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> From the sons of Nebo, Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jaddai, and Joel, and Benaiah.</p>

<p><a id="c10_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> All these had taken foreign wives, and there were among them women who had borne sons.</p>

</body>
</html>