<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Ezra 2</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Ezra 2</h2>

<p><a id="c2_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Now these are the sons of the province, who ascended from the captivity, whom Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had transferred to Babylon, and who were returned to Jerusalem and to Judah, each one to his own city.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> They arrived with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The sons of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The sons of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The sons of Arah, seven hundred seventy-five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The sons of Pahath-moab, of the sons of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The sons of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sons of Zattu, nine hundred forty-five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> The sons of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The sons of Bani, six hundred forty-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The sons of Bebai, six hundred twenty-three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> The sons of Azgad, one thousand two hundred twenty-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The sons of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-six.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The sons of Bigvai, two thousand fifty-six.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The sons of Adin, four hundred fifty-four.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> The sons of Ater, who were of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The sons of Bezai, three hundred twenty-three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The sons of Jorah, one hundred twelve.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The sons of Hashum, two hundred twenty-three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The sons of Gibbar, ninety-five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> The sons of Bethlehem, one hundred twenty-three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> The men of Netophah, fifty-six.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> The sons of Azmaveth, forty-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> The sons of Kiriatharim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> The sons of Ramah and Geba, six hundred twenty-one.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty-three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> The sons of Nebo, fifty-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The sons of Magbish, one hundred fifty-six.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> The sons of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> The sons of Harim, three hundred twenty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> The sons of Jericho, three hundred forty-five.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> The sons of Senaah, three thousand six hundred thirty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> The priests: the sons of Jedaiah of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> The sons of Immer, one thousand fifty-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> The sons of Pashhur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> The sons of Harim, one thousand seventeen.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> The Levites: the sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodaviah, seventy-four.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> The singing men: the sons of Asaph, one hundred twenty-eight.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v42"></a><span class="vn">42</span> The sons of the gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai: altogether one hundred thirty-nine.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v43"></a><span class="vn">43</span> The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v44"></a><span class="vn">44</span> the sons of Keros, the sons of Siaha, the sons of Padon,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v45"></a><span class="vn">45</span> the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, the sons of Akkub,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v46"></a><span class="vn">46</span> the sons of Hagab, the sons of Shamlai, the sons of Hanan,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v47"></a><span class="vn">47</span> the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar, the sons of Reaiah,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v48"></a><span class="vn">48</span> the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda, the sons of Gazzam,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v49"></a><span class="vn">49</span> the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah, the sons of Besai,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v50"></a><span class="vn">50</span> the sons of Asnah, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephusim,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v51"></a><span class="vn">51</span> the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v52"></a><span class="vn">52</span> the sons of Bazluth, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v53"></a><span class="vn">53</span> the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v54"></a><span class="vn">54</span> the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v55"></a><span class="vn">55</span> the sons of the servants of Solomon, the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Peruda,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v56"></a><span class="vn">56</span> the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v57"></a><span class="vn">57</span> the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth, who were of Hazzebaim, the sons of Ami:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v58"></a><span class="vn">58</span> all the temple servants and the sons of the servants of Solomon, three hundred ninety-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v59"></a><span class="vn">59</span> And these were the ones who ascended from Telmelah, Telharsha, Cherub, and Addan, and Immer. And they were not able to indicate the house of their fathers and their offspring, whether they were of Israel:</p>

<p><a id="c2_v60"></a><span class="vn">60</span> The sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, six hundred fifty-two.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v61"></a><span class="vn">61</span> And from the sons of the priests: the sons of Hobaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai, who took a wife from the daughters of Barzillai, the Gileadite, and who were called by their name.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v62"></a><span class="vn">62</span> These sought the writing of their genealogy, and they did not find it, and so they were cast out of the priesthood.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v63"></a><span class="vn">63</span> And the cupbearer said to them that they should not eat from the Holy of Holies, until there would arise a priest, learned and perfect.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v64"></a><span class="vn">64</span> The entire multitude joined together was forty-two thousand three hundred sixty,</p>

<p><a id="c2_v65"></a><span class="vn">65</span> not including their men and women servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven. And among these were singing men and singing women, two hundred.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v66"></a><span class="vn">66</span> Their horses were seven hundred thirty-six; their mules were two hundred forty-five;</p>

<p><a id="c2_v67"></a><span class="vn">67</span> their camels were four hundred thirty-five; their donkeys were six thousand seven hundred twenty.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v68"></a><span class="vn">68</span> And some of the leaders among the fathers, when they entered into the temple of the Lord, which is in Jerusalem, freely offered some of these to the house of God, in order to construct it in its location.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v69"></a><span class="vn">69</span> They gave to the expenses of the work in accord with their ability: sixty-one thousand gold coins, five thousand silver minas, and one hundred priestly vestments.</p>

<p><a id="c2_v70"></a><span class="vn">70</span> Therefore, the priests and the Levites, and some of the people, and the singing men, and the gatekeepers, and the temple servants lived in their cities, and all of Israel lived in their cities.</p>

</body>
</html>