<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Nehemiah 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Nehemiah 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Eliashib, the great priest, rose up, with his brothers, the priests, and they built the gate of the flock. They sanctified it, and they set up its double doors, and as far as the tower of one hundred cubits, they sanctified it, even to the tower of Hananel.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And beside him, the men of Jericho built. And beside them, Zaccur, the son of Imri, built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> But the sons of Hassenaah built the fish gate. They covered it, and they set up its double doors and locks and bars. And beside them, Meremoth, the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz, built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And beside him, Meshullam, the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabel, built. And beside them, Zadok, the son of Baana, built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And beside them, the Tekoites built. But the nobles among them did not put their necks to the work of their Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And Joiada, the son of Paseah, and Meshullam, the son of Besodeiah, built the old gate. They covered it, and they set up its double doors and locks and bars.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And beside them, Melatiah, a Gibeonite, and Jadon, a Meronothite, men from Gibeon and Mizpah, built, on behalf of the governor who was in the region across the river.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And beside him, Uzziel, the son of Harhaiah the goldsmith, built. And beside him, Hananiah, the son of the perfumer, built. And they left aside Jerusalem as far as the wall of the broad street.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And beside him, Rephaiah, the son of Hur, leader of a street of Jerusalem, built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And beside him, Jedaiah, the son of Harumaph, built, opposite his own house. And beside him, Hattush, the son of Hashabneiah, built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Malchijah, the son of Harim, and Hasshub, the son of Pahath-moab, built one half part of the street and the tower of the furnaces.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And beside him, Shallum, the son of Hallohesh, the leader of one half part of a street of Jerusalem, built, he and his daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And Hanun built the gate of the valley, with the inhabitants of Zanoah. They built it, and they set up its double doors and locks and bars, with one thousand cubits of the wall, as far as the gate of the dunghill.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And Malchijah, the son of Rechab, the leader of the street of Beth-haccherem, built the gate of the dunghill. He built it, and he set up its double doors and locks and bars.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And Shallum, the son of Colhozeh, the leader of the district of Mizpah, built the gate of the fountain. He built it, and he covered it, and he set up its double doors and locks and bars, and the walls of the pool of Shelah at the garden of the king, and as far as the steps that descend from the City of David.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> After him, Nehemiah, the son of Azbuk, the leader of one half part of the street of Bethzur, built, as far as opposite the sepulcher of David, and even to the pool, which was constructed with great labor, and even to the house of the strong.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> After him, the Levites, Rehum, the son of Bani, built. After him, Hashabiah, the leader of one half part of the street of Keilah, built, in his own neighborhood.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> After him, their brothers, Binnui, the son of Henadad, the leader of one half part of Keilah, built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> And beside him, Ezer, the son of Jeshua, the leader of Mizpah, built another measure, opposite the ascent to the strongest corner.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> After him, at the mount, Baruch, the son of Zabbai, built another measure, from the corner even to the door of the house of Eliashib, the great priest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> After him, Meremoth, the son of Uriah, the son of Hakkoz, built another measure, from the door of the house of Eliashib, along the length of the house of Eliashib.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And after him, the priests, men from the plains of the Jordan, built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> After him, Benjamin and Hasshub built, opposite their own house. And after him, Azariah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ananiah, built, opposite his own house.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> After him, Binnui, the son of Henadad, built another measure, from the house of Azariah, even to the bend and to the corner.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Palal, the son of Uzai, built, opposite the bend and the tower that projects from the high house of the king, that is, into the court of the prison. After him, Pedaiah, the son of Parosh, built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> And the temple servants, who were living in Ophel, built to a point opposite the water gate, toward the east, and the tower that is prominent.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> After him, the Tekoites built another measure in the opposite area, from the great and prominent tower to the wall of the temple.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Then, upward from the horse gate, the priests built, each one opposite his own house.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> After them, Zadok, the son of Immer, built, opposite his own house. And after him, Shemaiah, the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the east gate, built.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> After him, Hananiah, the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun, the sixth son of Zalaph, built another measure. After him, Meshullam, the son of Berechiah, built, opposite his own storehouse. After him, Malchijah, the son of the goldsmith, built, even up to the house of the temple servants and of the sellers of small items, opposite the judgment gate, and even to the upper room of the corner.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And within the upper room of the corner, at the gate of the flock, the goldsmiths and the merchants built.</p>

</body>
</html>