<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Esther 5</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Esther 5</h2>

<p><a id="c5_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this, king Artaxerxes exalted Haman, the son of Hammedatha, who was of Agag lineage, and he set his throne above all the rulers whom he had.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And all the king's servants, who passed by the doors of the palace, bent their knees and adored Haman, for so the ruler had instructed them. Only Mordecai did not bend his knee, nor adore him.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> The king's servants, who presided over the doors of the palace, said to him, "Why do you, more than the others, not observe the king's command?"</p>

<p><a id="c5_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And when they were saying this frequently, and he would not listen to them, they reported it to Haman, desiring to know whether he would continue in his resolution, for he had told them that he was a Jew.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Now when Haman had heard this, and had proved by a test that Mordecai did not bend his knee to him, nor adore him, he was very angry.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And he considered it pointless to lay his hands on Mordecai alone, for he had heard that he was part of the Jewish people. And so he wanted more: to destroy the entire nation of the Jews, who were in the kingdom of Artaxerxes.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> In the first month, which is called Nisan, in the twelfth year of the reign of Artaxerxes, the lot was cast into an urn, which in Hebrew is called Pur, in the presence of Haman, to determine on what day and in which month the Jewish people should be destroyed. And it turned out to be the twelfth month, which is called Adar.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And Haman said to king Artaxerxes, "There is a people dispersed throughout all the provinces of your kingdom and separated one from another, who make use of unusual laws and ceremonies, and who, in addition, show contempt for the king's ordinances. And you know very well that it is not expedient for your kingdom that they should become insolent through independence.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If it pleases you, declare that they may be destroyed, and I will weigh out ten thousand talents to the keepers of your treasury."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And so the king took the ring that he used, from his own hand, and gave it to Haman, the son of Hammedatha, of Agag lineage, enemy of the Jews.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And he said to him, "Let the silver, which you promise, be for yourself. As for the people, do with them as it pleases you."</p>

<p><a id="c5_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the scribes of the king were summoned, in the first month Nisan, on the thirteenth day of the same month. And it was written, as Haman had commanded, to all the king's governors, and to the judges of the provinces, and to various peoples, so that each people could read and hear according to their various languages, in the name of king Artaxerxes. And the letters were sealed with his ring.</p>

<p><a id="c5_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> These were sent by the king's messengers to all the provinces, so as to kill and destroy all the Jews, from children all the way to the elderly, even little children and women, on one day, that is, on the thirteenth of the twelfth month, which is called Adar, and to plunder their goods, even their necessities.</p>

</body>
</html>