<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Esther 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Esther 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> In the second year of the reign of Artaxerxes the great, on the first day of the month of Nisan, Mordecai the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, of the tribe of Benjamin,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> a Jewish man who lived in the city of Susa, a great gentleman, and among the first ones of the king's court, saw a dream.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Now he was one of a number of captives, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had carried away from Jerusalem with Jeconiah king of Judah.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And this was his dream: voices appeared, and confusion, and thunders, and earthquakes, and a disturbance upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And behold, there were two great dragons making preparations against one another for battle.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> And at their cry all peoples rushed forth to fight against the nation of the just.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> And that was a day of darkness and division, of tribulation and anguish, and there was an unnatural dread over the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the nation of the just was disturbed, fearing their own evils, and was prepared for death.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> And they cried out to God, and from their loud crying, a little fountain grew into a very great river and overflowed into many waters.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> The light and the sun rose up, and the humble were exalted, and they devoured the illustrious.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> When Mordecai had seen this, and he arose from bed, he was considering what God might want to do, and he kept it fixed in his soul, desiring to know what the dream might signify.</p>

</body>
</html>