<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 22</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 22</h2>

<p><a id="c22_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Eliphaz the Themanite responded by saying:</p>

<p><a id="c22_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Can man be compared with God, even if he were perfect in knowledge?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> What advantage is it to God, if you were just? Or what do you provide for him, if your way should be immaculate?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Will he reprove you and take you to judgment for being afraid,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> and not because of your many evil deeds and your infinite unfairness?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> For you have taken away the collateral of your brothers without cause, and stripped them naked of their clothing.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> You have not given water to the weary; you have taken bread away from the hungry.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> By the strength of your arm, you took possession of the land, and you retain it by being the strongest.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> You have sent widows away empty, and you have crushed the shoulders of orphans.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Because of this, you are surrounded by traps, and unexpected fears will disturb you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And did you think that you would not see darkness and that you were not to be overwhelmed by the on-rush of overflowing waters?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Have you not considered that God is higher than the heavens and is lifted above the height of the stars?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And you say: "Well, what does God know?" and, "He judges, as if through a fog,"</p>

<p><a id="c22_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> and, "The clouds are his hiding-place," and, "He does not examine us closely," and, "He makes his rounds at the limits of the heavens."</p>

<p><a id="c22_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Do you not want to tend the path of the ages, which wicked men have spurned?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> These were taken away before their time, and a flood overthrew their foundation.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> They said to God, "Withdraw from us," and they treated the Almighty as if he could do nothing,</p>

<p><a id="c22_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> though he had filled their houses with good things. May their way of thinking be far from me.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The just will see and will rejoice, and the innocent will mock them.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Has not their haughtiness been cut down, and has not fire devoured the remnants of them?</p>

<p><a id="c22_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So, repose yourself with him and be at peace, and, in this way, you will have the best fruits.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Accept the law from his mouth, and place his words in your heart.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If you will return to the Almighty, you will be rebuilt, and you will put sinfulness far from your tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> He will give you stone in place of dirt, and torrents of gold in place of stone.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> And the Almighty will be against your enemies, and silver will be gathered together for you.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Then will you flock together in delight over the Almighty, and you will lift up your face to God.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> You will plead with him, and he will listen to you, and you will pay your vows.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> You will decide on something, and it will come to you, and the light will shine in your ways.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> For he who had been humbled, will be in glory; and he who will lower his eyes, will be the one saved.</p>

<p><a id="c22_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The innocent will be saved, and he will be saved with purity in his hands.</p>

</body>
</html>