<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 40</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 40</h2>

<p><a id="c40_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But the Lord, answering Job out of the whirlwind, said:</p>

<p><a id="c40_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Gird your waist like a man. I will question you, and you must answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Will you make my judgment null and void; and will you condemn me so that you may be justified?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And do you have an arm like God, or a voice like thunder?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Envelop yourself with splendor, and raise yourself up on high, and be glorious, and put on splendid garments.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Scatter the arrogant with your wrath, and, when you see all the arrogant, humble them.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Look down upon each of the arrogant and confound them, and crush the impious in their place.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Hide them in the dust together and plunge their faces into the pit.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Then I will confess that your right hand is able to save you.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Behold, the behemoth, whom I created along with you, eats hay like an ox.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> His strength is in his lower back, and his power is in the center of his abdomen.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> He draws up his tail like a cedar; the sinews of his thighs have been drawn together.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His bones are like pipes of brass; his cartilage is like plates of iron.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He is the beginning of the ways of God, who made him; he will use him as his sword.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The mountains bring forth grass for him; all the beasts of the field will play there.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He sleeps in the shadows, under the cover of branches, and in moist places.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> The shadows cover his shadow; the willows of the brook will encircle him.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Behold, he will drink a river and not be amazed, and he has confidence that the Jordan could flow into his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> He will seize him through his eyes, as if with a hook, and he will bore through his nostrils, as if with stakes.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Can you draw out the leviathan with a hook, and can you bind his tongue with a cord?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Can you place a ring in his nose, or bore through his jaw with an arm band?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Will he offer many prayers to you, or speak to you quietly?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Will he form a covenant with you, and will you accept him as a servant forever?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Will you play with him as with a bird, or tether him for your handmaids?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Will your friends cut him into pieces, will dealers distribute him?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Will you fill up bags with his hide, and let his head be used as a home for fishes?</p>

<p><a id="c40_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Place your hand upon him; remember the battle and speak no more.</p>

<p><a id="c40_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Behold, his hope will fail him, and in the sight of all, he will be thrown down.</p>

</body>
</html>