<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 39</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 39</h2>

<p><a id="c39_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Do you know at what time the wild goats have given birth among the rocks, or do you observe the deer when they go into labor?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Have you numbered the months since their conception, and do you know at what time they gave birth?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They bend themselves for their offspring, and they give birth, and they emit roars.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Their young are weaned and go out to feed; they depart and do not return to them.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who has set the wild ass free, and who has released his bonds?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I have given a house in solitude to him, and his tabernacle is in the salted land.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He despises the crowded city; he does not pay attention to the bellow of the tax collector.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He looks around the mountains of his pasture, and he searches everywhere for green plants.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will the rhinoceros be willing to serve you, and will he remain in your stall?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Can you detain the rhinoceros with your harness to plough for you, and will he loosen the soil of the furrows behind you?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Will you put your faith in his great strength, and delegate your labors to him?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Will you trust him to return to you the seed, and to gather it on your drying floor?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The wing of the ostrich is like the wings of the heron, and of the hawk.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> When she leaves eggs behind in the earth, will you perhaps warm them in the dust?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> She forgets that feet may trample them, or that the beasts of the field may shatter them.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> She is hardened against her young, as if they were not hers; she has labored in vain, with no fear compelling her.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For God has deprived her of wisdom; neither has he given her understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Yet, when the time is right, she raises her wings on high; she ridicules the horse and his rider.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Will you supply strength to the horse, or envelope his throat with neighing?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Will you alarm him as the locusts do? His panic is revealed by the display of his nostrils.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> He digs at the earth with his hoof; he jumps around boldly; he advances to meet armed men.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> He despises fear; he does not turn away from the sword.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Above him, the quiver rattles, the spear and the shield shake.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Seething and raging, he drinks up the earth; neither does he pause when the blast of the trumpet sounds.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> When he hears the bugle, he says, "Ha!" He smells the battle from a distance, the exhortation of the officers, and the battle cry of the soldiers.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Does the hawk grow feathers by means of your wisdom, spreading her wings towards the south?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Will the eagle lift herself up at your command and make her nest in steep places?</p>

<p><a id="c39_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> She dwells among the rocks, and she lingers among broken boulders and inaccessible cliffs.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> From there, she looks for food, and her eyes catch sight of it from far away.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> Her young will drink blood, and wherever the carcass will be, she is there immediately.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> And the Lord continued, and he said to Job:</p>

<p><a id="c39_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Will he who contends with God be so easily silenced? Certainly, he who argues with God must also respond to him.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Then Job answered the Lord, saying:</p>

<p><a id="c39_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> What could I possibly answer, since I have been speaking thoughtlessly? I will place my hand over my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c39_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> One thing I have spoken, which I wish I had not said; and another, to which I will add no more.</p>

</body>
</html>