<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 9</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 9</h2>

<p><a id="c9_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> And Job, responding, said:</p>

<p><a id="c9_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Truly, I know that it is so, and that man cannot be justified compared with God.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> If he chooses to contend with him, he is not able to respond to him once out of a thousand times.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> He is understanding in heart and mighty in strength; who has resisted him and yet had peace?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> He has moved mountains, and those whom he overthrew in his fury did not know it.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He shakes the earth out of its place and its pillars tremble.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He commands the sun and it does not rise, and he closes the stars as if under a seal.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He alone extends the heavens, and he walks upon the waves of the sea.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He fashions Arcturus, and Orion, and Hyades, and the interior of the south.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He accomplishes great and incomprehensible and miraculous things, which cannot be numbered.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If he approaches me, I will not see him; if he departs, I will not understand.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> If he suddenly should question, who will answer him? Or who can say, "Why did you do so?"</p>

<p><a id="c9_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> God, whose wrath no one is able to resist, and under whom they bend who carry the world,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> what am I then, that I should answer him and exchange words with him?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And if I now have any justice, I will not respond, but will beseech my judge.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And if he should listen to me when I call, I would not believe that he had heard my voice.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> For he will crush me in a whirlwind and multiply my wounds, even without cause.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He does not permit my spirit to rest, and he fills me with bitterness.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> If strength is sought, he is most strong; if equity in judgment, no one would dare to give testimony for me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> If I wanted to justify myself, my own mouth will condemn me; if I would reveal my innocence, he would prove me depraved.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And if I now became simple, my soul would be ignorant even of this, and my life would weary me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> There is one thing that I have said: both the innocent and the impious he consumes.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> If he scourges, let him kill all at once, and not laugh at the punishment of the innocent.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Since the earth has been given into the hand of the impious, he covers the face of its judges; for if it is not him, then who is it?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> My days have been swifter than a messenger; they have fled and have not seen goodness.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> They have passed by like ships carrying fruits, just like an eagle flying to food.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> If I say: "By no means will I speak this way." I change my face and I am tortured with sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I have dreaded all my works, knowing that you did not spare the offender.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Yet, if I am also just as impious, why have I labored in vain?</p>

<p><a id="c9_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> If I had been washed with snow-like waters, and my hands were shining like the cleanest thing,</p>

<p><a id="c9_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> yet you would plunge me in filth, and my own garments would abhor me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> For even I would not answer a man who were like myself, nor one who could be heard with me equally in judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> There is no one who could both prevail in argument and in placing his hand between the two.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Let him take his staff away from me, and let not the fear of him terrify me.</p>

<p><a id="c9_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> I will speak and I will not fear him, for in fearfulness I am not able to respond.</p>

</body>
</html>