<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 36</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 36</h2>

<p><a id="c36_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Continuing in a similar manner, Eliu had this to say:</p>

<p><a id="c36_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Bear with me for a little while and I will show you; for I have still more to say in favor of God.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> I will review my knowledge from the beginning, and I will prove my Maker to be just.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For truly my words are without any falsehood and perfect knowledge will be proven to you.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God does not abandon the powerful, for he himself is also powerful.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But he does not save the impious, though he grants judgment to the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He will not take his eyes away from the just, and he continually establishes kings on their throne, and they are exalted.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And, if they are in captivity, or are bound with the chains of poverty,</p>

<p><a id="c36_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> he will reveal to them their works, as well as their sinfulness, in that they were violent.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Likewise, he will open their ears to his correction, and he will speak to them, so that they may return from iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> If they listen and obey, they will fill their days with goodness and complete their years in glory.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But if they will not listen, they will pass away by the sword and will be consumed by foolishness.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> The false and the crafty provoke the wrath of God, yet they do not cry out to him when they are chained.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Their soul will die in a storm, and their life, among the unmanly.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He will rescue the poor from his anguish, and he will open his ear during tribulation.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, he will save you from the narrow mouth very widely, even though it has no foundation under it. Moreover, your respite at table will be full of fatness.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Your case has been judged like that of the impious; you will withdraw your plea and your judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Therefore, do not let anger overwhelm you so that you oppress another; neither should you allow a multitude of gifts to influence you.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Lay down your greatness without distress, and put aside all of your power with courage.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Do not prolong the night, even if people rise on their behalf.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Be careful that you do not turn to iniquity; for, after your misery, you have begun to follow this.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Behold, God is exalted in his strength, and there is no one like him among the law-givers.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> Who is able to investigate his ways? And who can say, "You have done iniquity," to him?</p>

<p><a id="c36_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Remember that you are ignorant of his work, yet men have sung its praises.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> All men consider him; and each one ponders from a distance.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Behold, God is great, defeating our knowledge; the number of his years is inestimable.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> He carries away the drops of rain, and he sends forth showers like a raging whirlpool;</p>

<p><a id="c36_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> they flow from the clouds that are woven above everything.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> If he wills it, he extends the clouds as his tent</p>

<p><a id="c36_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> and shines with his light from above; likewise, he covers the oceans within his tent.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> For he judges the people by these things, and he gives food to a multitude of mortals.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Within his hands, he hides the light, and he commands it to come forth again.</p>

<p><a id="c36_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> He announces it to his friend, for it is his possession and he is able to reach out to it.</p>

</body>
</html>