<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 42</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 42</h2>

<p><a id="c42_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job, responding to the Lord, said:</p>

<p><a id="c42_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I know that you are able to do all things, and that no thoughts are hidden from you.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> So, who is it that would disguise a lack of knowledge as counsel? Therefore, I have been speaking foolishly, about things whose measure exceeds my knowledge.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Listen, and I will speak. I will question you, and you may answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> By paying attention with the ear, I have heard you, but now my eye sees you.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Therefore, I find myself reprehensible, and I will do penance in embers and ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But after the Lord had finished speaking these words to Job, he said to Eliphaz the Themanite: My wrath has been kindled against you, and against your two friends, because you have not been speaking correctly in my eyes, as my servant Job has done.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Therefore, have seven bulls and seven rams brought to you, and go to my servant Job, and offer these as a holocaust for yourselves. But also, my servant Job will pray for you; I will accept his face, so that foolishness will not be imputed to you. For you have not been speaking correctly about me, as my servant Job has done.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> So Eliphaz the Themanite, and Baldad the Suhite, and Zophar the Naamathite departed, and they did just as the Lord had spoken to them, and the Lord accepted the face of Job.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Likewise, the Lord was moved by the repentance of Job, when he prayed for his friends. And the Lord gave to Job twice as much as he had before.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Yet all his brethren came to him, and all his sisters, and everyone who had known him before, and they ate bread with him in his house. They also shook their heads over him and comforted him, because of all the bad things that God had inflicted on him. And each one of them gave him one female sheep, and one earring of gold.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> And the Lord blessed the latter end of Job even more than his beginning. And he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand pairs of oxen, and a thousand she-donkeys.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And he had seven sons and three daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And he called the name of one, Daylight, and the name of the second, Cinnamon, and the name of the third, Horn of Cosmetics.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And, in the whole world, there were not found women so beautiful as the daughters of Job. And so their father gave them an inheritance along with their brothers.</p>

<p><a id="c42_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But Job lived long after these events, for a hundred and forty years, and he saw his children, and his children's children, all the way to the fourth generation, and he died an old man and full of days.</p>

</body>
</html>