<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 6</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 6</h2>

<p><a id="c6_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Job, responding, said:</p>

<p><a id="c6_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I wish that my sins, for which I deserve wrath, and the calamity that I endure, were weighed out on a balance.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Compared to the sand of the sea, they would appear heavier, and so my words are full of sorrow.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> For the arrows of the Lord are in me, my spirit drinks of their indignation, and the terrors of the Lord are soldiers against me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Will the wild ass bray when he has grass? Or will the ox bellow when he stands before a full manger?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Or can one eat bland food, which is not seasoned with salt? Or can anyone taste that which, if tasted, causes death?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The things that my soul was unwilling to touch before, now, because of anguish, are my foods.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who will grant that my petition may arrive and that God may bestow on me what I expect,</p>

<p><a id="c6_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> and that he who, at first, had crushed me, will let loose his hand and cut me down?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> And may this be my consolation, that in afflicting me with sorrow, although he might not be lenient with me, I still do not contradict the words of the Holy One.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For what is my strength, that I may continue? Or what is my goal, so that I may act patiently?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> My strength is not the strength of stones, nor is my flesh made of bronze.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Behold, there is no help for me in myself, and my loved ones also have withdrawn from me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He who takes away mercy from his friend, abandons the fear of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> My brethren have disregarded me, like a torrent that passes swiftly through the steep valleys.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Those who fear frost, snow will rush over them.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> At that time, when they are scattered, they will perish, and when it becomes hot, they will be freed from their place.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The paths of their steps are entangled; they will walk in vain and will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Consider the paths of Thema, the ways of Saba, and wait a little while.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> They have been thrown into confusion, just as I had hoped; they have even come to me and are overwhelmed with shame.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Now you have arrived, and merely by seeing my affliction, you are afraid.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Did I say: "Bring to me and give to me from your necessities?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> or, "Free me from the hand of the enemy and rescue me from the hand of the strong?"</p>

<p><a id="c6_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Teach me, and I will be silent, and if by chance I have been ignorant of anything, instruct me.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Why have you diminished the words of truth, when there is none of you who is able to offer proof against me?</p>

<p><a id="c6_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> You prepare speeches as so much noise, and you offer words into the wind.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> You encroach upon the orphan, and you strive to undermine your friend.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Such is true, so finish what you have begun. Listen closely, and see if I lie.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> Respond, I beg you, without contention, and, speaking what is just, pass judgment.</p>

<p><a id="c6_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> And you will not find iniquity on my tongue, nor will foolishness resound in my throat.</p>

</body>
</html>