<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 26</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 26</h2>

<p><a id="c26_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job responded by saying:</p>

<p><a id="c26_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Whose assistant are you? Is he weak-minded? And do you sustain the arm of him that is not strong?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> To whom have you given advice? Perhaps it is to him that has no wisdom or prudence that you have revealed your many ideas.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who is it that you wanted to teach? Was it not him that created the breath of life?</p>

<p><a id="c26_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Behold, giant things groan under the waters, and they dwell with them.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> The underworld is naked before him, and there is no covering for perdition.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He stretched out the North over emptiness, and he suspended the land over nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> He secures the waters in his clouds, so that they do not burst forth downward all at once.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He holds back the face of his throne, and he stretches his cloud over it.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has set limits around the waters, until light and darkness shall reach their limit.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The pillars of heaven tremble and are frightened at his nod.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> By his strength, the seas suddenly gather together, and his foresight has struck the arrogant.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> His spirit has adorned the heavens, and his birthing hand has brought forth the winding serpent.</p>

<p><a id="c26_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Behold, these things have been said about his ways in part, and, since we barely have heard a small drop of his word, who will be able to gaze upon the thunder of his greatness?</p>

</body>
</html>