<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 27</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 27</h2>

<p><a id="c27_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Job also added to this, using figures of speech, and he said:</p>

<p><a id="c27_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> As God lives, who has taken away my judgment, and the Almighty, who has led my soul to bitterness,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> as long as my breath remains in me and the breath of God remains in my nostrils,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> my lips will not speak iniquity, nor will my tongue devise lies.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Far be it from me that I should judge you to be right, for, until I expire, I will not withdraw from my innocence.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I will not forsake my justification, which I have just begun to grasp, for my heart does not find blame for me in my whole life.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let the impious be as my enemy, and the sinful, as my adversary.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For what hope is there for the hypocrite, if he greedily plunders and God does not free his soul?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Will God pay attention to his cry, when anguish overcomes him?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Or will he take delight in the Almighty and call upon God at all times?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> I will teach you through the hand of God, what the Almighty holds, and I will not conceal it.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Behold, you know all this, and so why do you speak vain things without a reason?</p>

<p><a id="c27_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> This is the portion of the impious man with God, and the inheritance of the violent, which they will receive from the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> If his sons should happen to increase, they will be for the sword, and his grandsons will not be satisfied with bread.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Whatever will remain of him will be buried in the ruins, and his widows will not weep.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> If he will amass silver as if it were dirt and fabricate garments as if they were clay,</p>

<p><a id="c27_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> then yes, he will gather, but the just will be clothed with it and the innocent will divide the silver.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He has built his house like a moth, and he has made a makeshift shelter like a sentry.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> When he falls asleep, the rich man will leave him with nothing; he will open his eyes and find nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Destitution will surround him like water; a storm will overwhelm him in the night.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> A burning wind will pick him up and carry him away, and, like a whirlwind, it will rush him from his place.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And it will hurl over him and will not spare him; fleeing from its power, he will go into exile.</p>

<p><a id="c27_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> He will clasp his hands over himself, and he will hiss at himself, while considering his situation.</p>

</body>
</html>