<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 1</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 1</h2>

<p><a id="c1_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> There was a man in the land of Uz named Job, and he was a simple and honest man, fearing God and withdrawing from evil.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> And there had been born to him seven sons and three daughters.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And his possession was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, along with five hundred pairs of oxen and five hundred she-donkeys, and also a very large family. And this man was great among all the people of the east.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And his sons went and made a feast by houses, each one on his day. And sending, they called their three sisters to eat and drink with them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> And when the days of their feasting had been completed, Job sent to them and sanctified them, and, getting up at dawn, he offered holocausts for each one. For he said, "Perhaps my sons have sinned and have not praised God in their hearts." So Job did all the days.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> But on a certain day, when the sons of God came to attend in the presence of the Lord, Satan also arrived among them.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The Lord said to him, "Where do you come from?" Answering, he said, "I have circled the land, and walked around in it."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> And the Lord said to him, "Have you not considered my servant, Job? For there is no one like him in the land, a simple and honest man, fearing God and withdrawing from evil."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Answering him, Satan said, "Does Job fear God to no purpose?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Have you not fortified him, as well as his house and every one of his belongings around him, blessed the works of his hands, and his possession has increased in the land?</p>

<p><a id="c1_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> But extend your hand a little, and touch all that he possesses, and see if he still praises you to your face."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Therefore, the Lord said to Satan, "Behold, everything that he has is in your hand, only do not extend your hand against him." And Satan departed from the face of the Lord.</p>

<p><a id="c1_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> So, on a certain day, when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine, in the house of their first-born brother,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> a messenger came to Job, who said, "The oxen were plowing, and the donkeys were grazing beside them,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> and the Sabeans rushed in and carried away everything, and they struck the servants with the sword; and I alone evaded them to tell you."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> And while he was still speaking, another arrived, and he said, "The fire of God fell from heaven, and, having struck the sheep and the servants, it consumed them; and I alone escaped to tell you."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> And while he also was still speaking, another arrived, and he said, "The Chaldeans organized three attacks, and advanced on the camels and took them; and not only that, but they have struck the servants with the sword; and I alone fled to tell you."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He was still speaking, and behold, another entered, and he said, "Your sons and daughters were feasting and drinking wine in the house of their first-born brother,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> when suddenly a severe wind rushed forth from a region of the desert and shook the four corners of the house, which collapsed and crushed your children, and they are dead; and I alone escaped to tell you."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Then Job got up and tore his garments, and, having shaved his head, he collapsed on the ground, and worshipped,</p>

<p><a id="c1_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> and he said, "Naked I departed from my mother's womb, and naked I shall return. The Lord gave, and the Lord has taken away. Just as it pleased the Lord, so has it been done. Blessed be the name of the Lord."</p>

<p><a id="c1_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> In all this, Job did not sin by his lips, nor did he speak any foolish thing against God.</p>

</body>
</html>