<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 38</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 38</h2>

<p><a id="c38_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But the Lord, responding to Job from a whirlwind, said:</p>

<p><a id="c38_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Who is this that wraps sentences in unskilled words?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Gird your waist like a man. I will question you, and you must answer me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Where were you, when I set the foundations of the earth? Tell me, if you have understanding.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Who set its measurements, if you know, or who stretched a line over it?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Upon what have its bases been grounded, and who set forth its cornerstone,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> when the morning stars praised me together, and all the sons of God made a joyful noise?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Who enclosed the sea with doors, when it broke forth as if issuing from the womb,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> when I stationed a cloud as its garment and wrapped it in a mist as if swaddling an infant?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> I encircled it with my limits, and I positioned its bars and doors.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> And I said: "This far you will approach, and you will proceeded no further, and here you will break your swelling waves."</p>

<p><a id="c38_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Did you, after your birth, command the birth of the sun and show the sunrise its place?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> And did you hold the extremities of the earth, shaking them, and have you shaken the impious out of it?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The seal will be restored like clay, and it will remain in place like a garment.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> From the impious, the light will be taken away, and the exalted arm will be broken.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Have you entered the depths of the sea, and have you taken a walk in the uttermost parts of the abyss?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Have the gates of death been opened to you, and have you seen the doors of darkness?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Have you considered the breadth of the earth? If you know all things, reveal them to me.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Which is the way that holds the light, and which is the place of darkness?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> In this way, you might lead each thing to its final place, and understand the paths of its house.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> So then, did you know when you were to be born? And did you know the number of your days?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Have you been admitted into the storehouses of the snows, and have you gazed upon the stockpile of the brimstone,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> which I have prepared for the time of the enemy, for the day of the battle and the war?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> In what way is the light scattered, and the heat distributed, over the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Who gave a course to the rainstorms, and a path to the resounding thunder,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> so that it would rain on the earth far from man, in the wilderness where no mortal lingers,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> so that it would fill impassable and desolate places, and would bring forth green plants?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> Who is the father of rain, or who conceived the drops of dew?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> From whose womb did the ice proceed, and who created the frost from the air?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> The waters are hardened to become like stone, and the surface of the abyss freezes over.</p>

<p><a id="c38_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> Will you have the strength to join together the sparkling stars of the Pleiades, or are you able to disperse the circling of Arcturus?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v32"></a><span class="vn">32</span> Can you bring forth the morning star, in its time, and make the evening star rise over the sons of the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v33"></a><span class="vn">33</span> Do you know the order of heaven, and can you explain its rules here on the earth?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v34"></a><span class="vn">34</span> Can you lift up your voice to the clouds, so that an onslaught of waters will cover you?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v35"></a><span class="vn">35</span> Can you send forth lightning bolts, and will they go, and on returning, say to you: "Here we are?"</p>

<p><a id="c38_v36"></a><span class="vn">36</span> Who placed discernment in the guts of man, or who gave the rooster intelligence?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v37"></a><span class="vn">37</span> Who can describe the rules of the heavens, or who can put to rest the harmony of heaven?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v38"></a><span class="vn">38</span> When was the dust cast to become the earth, and when were its clods fastened together?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v39"></a><span class="vn">39</span> Will you seize prey for the lioness, and will you sustain the lives of her young,</p>

<p><a id="c38_v40"></a><span class="vn">40</span> as they rest in their dens or lie in wait in pits?</p>

<p><a id="c38_v41"></a><span class="vn">41</span> Who provides the raven with its meal, when her chicks cry out to God, as they wander around because they have no food?</p>

</body>
</html>