<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 30</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 30</h2>

<p><a id="c30_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But now, those younger in years scorn me, whose fathers I would not have seen fit to place with the dogs of my flock,</p>

<p><a id="c30_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> the strength of whose hands was nothing to me, and they were considered unworthy of life itself.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> They were barren from poverty and hunger; they gnawed in solitude, layered with misfortune and misery.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And they chewed grass and the bark from trees, and the root of junipers was their food.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> They took these things from the steep valleys, and when they discovered one of these things, they rushed to the others with a cry.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> They lived in the parched desert and in caves underground or above the rocks.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> They rejoiced among these kinds of things, and they considered it delightful to be under thorns.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> These are the sons of foolish and base men, not even paying any attention to the land.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Now I become their song, and I have been made into their proverb.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> They loathe me, and so they flee far from me, and they are not reluctant to spit in my face.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> For he has opened his quiver and has afflicted me, and he has placed a bridle in my mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Immediately, upon rising, my calamities rise up to the right. They have overturned my feet and have pressed me down along their way like waves.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> They have diverted my journeys; they have waited to ambush me, and they have prevailed, and there was no one who might bring help.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> They have rushed upon me, as when a wall is broken or a gate opened, and they have been pulled down into my miseries.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> I have been reduced to nothing. You have taken away my desire like a wind, and my health has passed by like a cloud.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> But now my soul withers within myself, and the days of affliction take hold of me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> At night, my bone is pierced with sorrows, and those who feed on me, do not sleep.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> By the sheer number of them my clothing is worn away, and they have closed in on me like the collar of my coat.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> I have been treated like dirt, and I have been turned into embers and ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> I cry to you, and you do not heed me. I stand up, and you do not look back at me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> You have changed me into hardness, and, with the hardness of your hand, you oppose me.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> You have lifted me up, and, placing me as if on the wind, you have thrown me down powerfully.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> I know that you will hand me over to death, where a home has been established for all the living.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Truly, then, you do not extend your hand in order to consume them, and if they fall down, you will save them.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> Once, I wept over him who was afflicted, and my soul had compassion on the poor.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> I expected good things, but evil things have come to me. I stood ready for light, yet darkness burst forth.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> My insides have seethed, without any rest, for the days of affliction have prevented it.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> I went forth mourning, without anger, and rising up, I cried out in confusion.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v29"></a><span class="vn">29</span> I was the brother of snakes, and the companion of ostriches.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v30"></a><span class="vn">30</span> My skin has become blackened over me, and my bones have dried up because of the heat.</p>

<p><a id="c30_v31"></a><span class="vn">31</span> My harp has been turned into mourning, and my pipes have been turned into a voice of weeping.</p>

</body>
</html>