<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 28</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 28</h2>

<p><a id="c28_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Silver has its fissures where it is first found, and gold has a place where it is melted.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Iron is taken from the earth, and ore, unbound by heat, is turned into brass.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He has established a time for darkness, and he has settled on an end for all things, as well as for the stone that is in the gloom and shadow of death.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> The burning separates a pilgrim people from those who have been forgotten by the feet of the destitute man and from the unapproachable.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The land, where bread appeared in its place, has been destroyed by fire.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Its stones are embedded with sapphires, and its soil, with gold.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> The bird does not know its path, nor has the eye of the vulture beheld it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The sons of merchants have not walked there, nor has the lioness traveled through it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> He has stretched out his hand to the rocks; he has overturned the foundations of the mountains.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has cut rivers through the rocks, and his eye has seen all precious things.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> The depths of rivers he has also examined, and he has brought hidden things into the light.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> But, in truth, where is wisdom to be found, and where is the place of understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c28_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Man does not know its price, nor is it found in the land of those who live in sweetness.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> The abyss declares, "It is not in me." And the sea says, "It is not with me."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> The finest gold will not be paid for it, nor will silver be weighed in exchange for it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> It will not be compared with the dyed colors of India, nor with the very costly stone sardonyx, nor with the sapphire.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Neither gold nor crystal will be its equal; neither will vessels of gold be fitted for it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> The exalted and the eminent will not be remembered in comparison with it. Yet wisdom is drawn out of concealment.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The topaz of Ethiopia will not be equal to it, nor will it be compared to the purest dyes.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> So then, where does wisdom begin, and where is the place of understanding?</p>

<p><a id="c28_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> It has been hidden from the eyes of all living things, just as the birds of the heavens escape notice.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Perdition and death have said, "With our ears, we have heard its fame."</p>

<p><a id="c28_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> God understands its way, and he knows its location.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> For he beholds the limits of the world, and he looks upon all things that are under heaven.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> He created a counterweight for the winds, and he suspended the waters to measure them.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> At that time, he gave a law to the rain and a path to the resounding storms.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v27"></a><span class="vn">27</span> Then he saw and explained it, and he made ready and examined it.</p>

<p><a id="c28_v28"></a><span class="vn">28</span> And he said to man, "Behold the fear of the Lord. Such is wisdom. And to withdraw from evil, this is understanding."</p>

</body>
</html>