<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 35</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 35</h2>

<p><a id="c35_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this, Eliu again spoke in this way:</p>

<p><a id="c35_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Does it seem right to you in your thoughts, that you should say, "I am more just than God?"</p>

<p><a id="c35_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> For you said, "Having done what is right does not please you," and, "How will it benefit you, if I sin?"</p>

<p><a id="c35_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And so, I will respond to your words, and to your friends who are with you.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Look up towards heaven and consider; also, think about the sky, which is higher than you.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If you sin, how will it hurt him? And if your iniquities are multiplied, what will you do against him?</p>

<p><a id="c35_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Furthermore, if you act justly, what will you give him, or what will he receive from your hand?</p>

<p><a id="c35_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> Your impiety may hurt a man who is like you, though your justice may help the son of the man.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Because of the multitude of false accusers, they will cry out; and they will lament because of the strong arm of the tyrants.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Yet he has not said: "Where is God, who made me, who has given songs in the night,</p>

<p><a id="c35_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> who teaches us in addition to the beasts of the earth, and who educates us along with the birds of the air?"</p>

<p><a id="c35_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> There they will cry, and he will not heed them, because of the arrogance of the wicked.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Therefore, God does not hear in vain, and the Almighty will look into each and every case.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And so, when you say, "He does not examine," be judged before him, but wait for him.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> For, at the present time, he does not bring forth his fury, nor does he punish sin exceedingly.</p>

<p><a id="c35_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Therefore, Job has opened his mouth in vain and has multiplied words without knowledge.</p>

</body>
</html>