<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 14</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 14</h2>

<p><a id="c14_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Man, born of woman, living for a short time, is filled with many miseries.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> He comes forth like a flower, and is crushed, and he flees, as if a shadow, and never remains in the same state.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> And do you consider it fitting to look down with your eyes on someone in this way and to lead him into judgment with you?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> Who can make him clean who is conceived of unclean seed? Are you not the only one who can?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> The days of man are short, and the number of his months is with you; you have determined his limits, which cannot be surpassed.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Withdraw a little from him, so that he may rest, until his awaited day arrives, like that of the hired hand.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> A tree has hope: if it has been cut, it turns green again, and its branches spring forth.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If its roots grow old in the earth, and its trunk passes into dust,</p>

<p><a id="c14_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> at the scent of water, it will sprout and bring forth leaves, as when it had first been planted.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Truly, when a man dies, and has been left unprotected, and has decayed, I ask you where is he?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> It is as if the waters had receded from the sea and an emptied river had dried up;</p>

<p><a id="c14_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> just so, when a man is fallen asleep, he will not rise again, until the heavens are worn away; he will not awaken, nor rise from his sleep.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Who will grant this to me, that you will protect me in the underworld, and hide me until your fury passes by, and establish a time for me, in which you will remember me?</p>

<p><a id="c14_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Do you suppose that a dead man will live again? On each of the days in which I now battle, I wait until my transformation occurs.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> You will call me and I will answer you; to the work of your hands, you will extend your right hand.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Indeed, you have numbered my steps, but you have been lenient with my sins.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> You have sealed up my offenses, as if in a purse, but you have cured my iniquity.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> A falling mountain flows away, and a stone is transferred from its place.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Waters wear away stones, and with a flood the land is reduced little by little; and similarly, you will destroy man.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> You have strengthened him for a little while, so that he may cross over into eternity. You will change his face and send him forth.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Whether his sons have been noble or ignoble, he will not understand.</p>

<p><a id="c14_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And in this way his body, while he yet lives, will have grief, and his soul will mourn over himself.</p>

</body>
</html>