<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 18</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 18</h2>

<p><a id="c18_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Baldad the Suhite responded by saying:</p>

<p><a id="c18_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long will you throw around words? Understand first, and then let us speak.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Why have we been treated like mules, as if we were unworthy before you?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> You, who ruins your own soul in your fury, will the earth be forsaken because of you, and will the cliffs be moved from their place?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Will not the light of the impious be put out, and the flame of his fire refuse to shine?</p>

<p><a id="c18_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Light will become darkness in his tabernacle, and the lamp that is over him will be extinguished.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> His strong steps will be constrained, and his own counsel will cast him down uncontrollably.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For he has caused his own feet to go into a net, and he has walked into its web.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> His heel will be held in a snare, and thirst will rage against him.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> A trap has been hidden for him in the earth, and a decoy, along his path.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Horrifying things will terrify him everywhere and will entangle his feet.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Let his strength be diminished by famine, and let starvation invade his ribs.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Let it devour the beauty of his skin; let the ancient death consume his arms.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Let his confidence be torn away from his tabernacle, and let ruin trample over him like a king.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Let the companions of he who is not, dwell in his tabernacle; let brimstone rain down upon his tabernacle.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Let his roots be dried up from beneath him, and his harvest be crushed from above.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Let the memory of him perish from the earth, and let not his name be celebrated in the streets.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> He will expel him from light into darkness, and he will remove him from the world.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Neither his offspring, nor his descendents, will exist among his people, nor will there be any remnants in his country.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> The last will be astonished at his day, and the first will be overcome with horror.</p>

<p><a id="c18_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> And so, these are the tabernacles of the sinful, and this the place of he who does not know God.</p>

</body>
</html>