<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 16</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 16</h2>

<p><a id="c16_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job, answering, said:</p>

<p><a id="c16_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> I have often heard such things; you are all aggravating comforters.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Will there be no end to windy words? Or is it at all a burden to you, if you speak?</p>

<p><a id="c16_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I, too, can speak like you; and I also wish that your soul favored my soul.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> I would also comfort you with speeches and would wag my head over you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I would strengthen you with my mouth, and would move my lips, as if being lenient to you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> But what can I do? When I am speaking, my grief will not be quiet; and if I am quiet, it will not withdraw from me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> But now my grief has crushed me, and all my limbs have been reduced to nothing.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> My wrinkles bear witness against me, and a liar rises up against my face, contradicting me.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> He has gathered together his fury towards me, and, threatening me, he has roared against me with his teeth; my enemy has beheld me with terrible eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> They have opened their mouths against me, and, reproaching me, they have struck me on the cheek; they are nourished by my sufferings.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> God has confined me with the immoral, and he has delivered me into the hands of the impious.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> I, who once was wealthy, am now crushed. He has grabbed me by my neck; he has broken me and has place me before him as a sign.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> He has surrounded me with his lances. He has severely wounded my lower back, he has not been lenient, and he has poured out my organs upon the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He has cut me with wound after wound. He has rushed upon me like a giant.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> I have sewn sackcloth over my skin, and I have covered my body with ashes.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> My face is swollen from weeping, and my eyelids have dimmed my vision.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> These things I have endured without iniquity in my hand, while I held pure prayers before God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> O earth, do not conceal my blood, nor let my outcry find a hiding place in you.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> For behold, my witness is in heaven, and my confidante is on high.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> My friends are full of words; my eye rains tears upon God.</p>

<p><a id="c16_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> And I wish that a man might be so judged before God, just as the son of man is judged with his assistant!</p>

<p><a id="c16_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> For behold, a few years pass by, and I am walking a path by which I will not return.</p>

</body>
</html>