<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 37</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 37</h2>

<p><a id="c37_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> At this, my heart became frightened, and it has been moved from its place.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Pay close attention to the alarm of his voice and to the sound that proceeds from his mouth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> He beholds everything under the heavens, and his light reaches beyond the ends of the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> After this, a noise will sound; he will thunder with the voice of his greatness, and it will not be tracked down, yet his voice will be obeyed.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> God will thunder with his voice miraculously, for he performs great and unsearchable things.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> He commands the snow to descend on earth, and the winter rains, and the shower of his strength.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> He signs the hand of all men, so that each one may know his works.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> The beast will enter his hiding-place, and he will remain in his cave.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> From the interior, a storm will come forth, and a cold winter from the north.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> As God breathes out, frost forms, and the waters are poured forth very widely again.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Crops desire clouds, and the clouds scatter their light.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> It shines all around, wherever the will of him that governs them will lead, to anywhere he will command, over the whole face of the earth,</p>

<p><a id="c37_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> whether in one tribe, or in his own region, or in whatever place of his mercy that he will order them to be found.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> Listen to these things, Job. Stand up and consider the wonders of God.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> Do you know when God ordered the rains, so as to show the light of his clouds?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> Do you know the great paths of the clouds, and the perfect sciences?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Are not your garments hot, when the south wind blows across the land?</p>

<p><a id="c37_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> Perhaps you have made the heavens with him, which are very solid, as if they had been cast from brass.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> Reveal to us what we should say to him, for, of course, we are wrapped in darkness.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Who will explain to him the things that I am saying? Even while a man is still speaking, he will be devoured.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> Although they do not see the light, the air will be thickened suddenly into clouds, and the wind, passing by, will drive them away.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Riches arrive from the north, and fearful praise reaches out to God.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> We are not worthy to be able to find him. Great in strength, great in judgment, great in justice: he is indescribable.</p>

<p><a id="c37_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Therefore, men will fear him, and all those who seem to themselves to be wise, will not dare to contemplate him.</p>

</body>
</html>