<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 23</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 23</h2>

<p><a id="c23_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> Then Job answered by saying:</p>

<p><a id="c23_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> Now again my conversation is in bitterness, and the force of my scourging weighs more heavily on me because of my mourning.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Who will grant me that I might know and find him, and that I may approach even to his throne?</p>

<p><a id="c23_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> I would place judgment before his eye, and my mouth would fill with criticism,</p>

<p><a id="c23_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> so that I may know the words that he will answer me and understand what he will say to me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> I do not want him to contend with me with much strength, nor to overwhelm me with the bulk of his greatness.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> Let him show fairness in response to me, and let my judgment reach to victory.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> If I go to the east, he does not appear; if I go to the west, I will not understand him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> If I turn to the left, what can I do? I will not take hold of him. If I turn myself to the right, I will not see him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> Truly, he knows my way and has tested me like gold that passes through fire.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> My feet have been following his footsteps; I have kept to his way and have not strayed from it.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> I have not withdrawn from the commands of his lips, and the words of his mouth I have hidden in my sinews.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For he is alone, and no one is able to disturb his intention; and whatever his spirit wills, that he accomplishes.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> And when he fulfills his will in me, many other similar ones will also be present with him.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> And, for this reason, I have been troubled at his presence, and, when I consider him, I am approached by fear.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> God has weakened my heart, and the Almighty has confused me.</p>

<p><a id="c23_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> Yet I have not perished because of the threatening darkness, nor has gloom covered my face.</p>

</body>
</html>