<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 3</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 3</h2>

<p><a id="c3_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> After this, Job opened his mouth and cursed his day,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> and this is what he said:</p>

<p><a id="c3_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> May the day perish on which I was born, and the night, in which it was said, "A man has been conceived."</p>

<p><a id="c3_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> May that day be turned into darkness, may God not seek it from above, and may light not illuminate it.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> Let darkness and the shadow of death obscure it, let a fog overtake it, and let it be enveloped in bitterness.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> Let a whirlwind of darkness take hold of that night, let it not be counted in the days of the year, nor numbered in the months.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> May that night be alone and unworthy of praise.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> May they curse it, who curse the day, who are prepared to awaken a leviathan.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> Let the stars be concealed with its darkness. Let it expect light, and not see it, nor the rising of the dawn in the East.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> For it did not close the doors of the womb that bore me, nor take away evils from my eyes.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Why did I not die in the womb? Having left the womb, why did I not immediately perish?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> Why was I received upon the knees? Why was I suckled at the breasts?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> For by now, I should have been sleeping silently, and taking rest in my sleep</p>

<p><a id="c3_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> with the kings and consuls of the earth, who build themselves solitudes,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> either with princes, who possess gold and fill their houses with silver,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> or, like a hidden miscarriage, I should not have continued, just like those who, being conceived, have not seen the light.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> There the impious cease from rebellion, and there the wearied in strength take rest.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> And at such times, having been bound together without difficulty, they have not heard the voice of the bailiff.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> The small and great are there, and the servant is free from his master.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> Why is light given to the miserable, and life to those who are in bitterness of soul,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> who expect death, and it does not arrive, like those who dig for treasure</p>

<p><a id="c3_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> and who rejoice greatly when they have found the grave,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v23"></a><span class="vn">23</span> to a man whose way is hidden and whom God has surrounded with darkness?</p>

<p><a id="c3_v24"></a><span class="vn">24</span> Before I eat, I sigh; and like overflowing waters, so is my howl,</p>

<p><a id="c3_v25"></a><span class="vn">25</span> for the terror that I feared has happened to me, and so has the dread befallen me.</p>

<p><a id="c3_v26"></a><span class="vn">26</span> Have I not remained hidden? Have I not kept silence? Have I not remained calm? Yet indignation has overcome me.</p>

</body>
</html>