<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<html dir="ltr" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Job 8</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="global.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Job 8</h2>

<p><a id="c8_v1"></a><span class="vn">1</span> But Baldad the Suhite, responding, said:</p>

<p><a id="c8_v2"></a><span class="vn">2</span> How long will you speak this way, so that the words of your mouth are like a changeable wind?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v3"></a><span class="vn">3</span> Does God supplant judgment, or does the Almighty subvert that which is just?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v4"></a><span class="vn">4</span> And if now your children have sinned against him, and he has dismissed them into the power of their iniquity,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v5"></a><span class="vn">5</span> even so, you should arise early to God, so as to beseech the Almighty.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v6"></a><span class="vn">6</span> If you approach with purity and honesty, he will quickly be attentive to you, and a peaceful life will repay your righteousness,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v7"></a><span class="vn">7</span> so much so that, if your former things were small, your latter things would be multiplied greatly.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v8"></a><span class="vn">8</span> For inquire of the earliest generation, and investigate diligently the history of the fathers,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v9"></a><span class="vn">9</span> (of course, we are but of yesterday and are ignorant that our days on earth are like a shadow,)</p>

<p><a id="c8_v10"></a><span class="vn">10</span> and they will teach you; they will speak with you and will offer you the eloquence of their hearts.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v11"></a><span class="vn">11</span> Can the marsh plant live without moisture? Or can sedges grow without water?</p>

<p><a id="c8_v12"></a><span class="vn">12</span> When it is still in flower, and has not been pulled up by hand, it withers before all other plants.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v13"></a><span class="vn">13</span> Just so are the ways of all who forget God, and the hope of the hypocrite will perish.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v14"></a><span class="vn">14</span> His frenzy will not please him, and his faith will be like a spider's web.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v15"></a><span class="vn">15</span> He will lean on his house, and it will not stand; he will prop it up, but it will not rise.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v16"></a><span class="vn">16</span> He seems to have moisture before the sun arrives; and at sunrise, his sprout shoots forth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v17"></a><span class="vn">17</span> His roots will crowd together over a heap of stones, and among the stones he will remain.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v18"></a><span class="vn">18</span> If someone is devoured right beside him, he will deny him and will say: "I do not know you."</p>

<p><a id="c8_v19"></a><span class="vn">19</span> For this is the benefit of his way, that others in turn may spring up from the earth.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v20"></a><span class="vn">20</span> God will not discard the simple, nor will he extend his hand to the spiteful,</p>

<p><a id="c8_v21"></a><span class="vn">21</span> even until your mouth is filled with laughter and your lips with rejoicing.</p>

<p><a id="c8_v22"></a><span class="vn">22</span> Those who hate you, will be clothed with confusion, and the tabernacle of the impious will not continue.</p>

</body>
</html>